Michelle: What is going on and it's Michelle LA's 97-01 radio is what you're listening to. First thing I walk in the door and right behind me here he is Kanye West

Kanye: What up

Michelle: How are you?

Kanye: I'm awesome

Michelle: I know you're doing a ton of interviews right now, this is the first time you've been to Amp radio, so I have to say thank you

Kanye: Okay, awesome

Michelle: This is pretty major and, I don't know, you probably have no way of knowing this, but the very first song I ever played on amp radio, about four years ago, was "Paranoid"

Kanye: Well thank you very much

Michelle: Absolutely we're huge fans around here

Kanye: Thank you, I appreciate that

Michelle: Thanks for coming in. So what's the story behind all of a sudden we're seeing you in front of us? Because you haven't done a whole lot of these kinds of interviews but now here you are, so we're thrilled to have you here. You just feel like going out and saying hello?

Kanye: Yeah, that's it

Michelle: That's awesome. I dig that. So you're out on the Yeezus tour right now which, first, your album is awesome. The live show sold out at Staples on Saturday night, you got another one and then you've got Anaheim on Friday, so tell me a little bit about what to expect at the tour stops, because like I just told you before we went on the air, I saw a little bit of the clips but I feel like it doesn't do it the justice of actually being there and experiencing the show in the moment

Kanye: Yeah even if I explain it...you know it's just like creativity central. It's an example of like what DONDA can do - that's my creative company - it's an example of what happens when you put amazing thinkers in a room together and eliminate what they normally do and all the cliches that people slip into and challenge everyone in that room to come up with something completely new, and that's what is, completely new. You know we we experiment with things, and they get better, and it's going to get better as it goes, but if I have an idea, I just do it. I just go for it

Michelle: Yeah that's cool, there's a certain fearlessness about you which I really dig. Do you feel like you get crap for that a little bit? The people misunderstand you?

Kanye: Yeah I'm not fearless, I just have courage, bravery. Like I have fear, but I overcome my fear. I know how to swim through backlash. I know how to float, I can tread water through backlash. I don't care about backlash if anything, because it's all given me power. Negative, positive, it's all energy and I can use energy

Michelle: What really inspires you? I know you're really creative in so many different arenas but what do you look for, what would spark you?

Kanye: God. Number one inspiration, God. How can you get something to the you know the greatest. He's the greatest creator of all time, so - if you're being creative - my greatest inspiration is God. He made our universe you know ? So you look that far and say, "if you gotta push hard to create on a more major scale," nothing is more major then the creator. He's given us the power of free will and the ability to create our own space, right

Sometimes people say like, "it seems like you're not satisfied with just creating music," well look at what Howard Hughes did, look what David Stern did, look what Steve Jobs did, look what Da Vinci did, look what Michelangelo did. I have this platform now at age 36 to really put out a lot a creative ideas. Certain people who are not giving me a shot or not backing me, and I can meet with all the billionaires in the world and people just look at me like it's not me, like I haven't created what I've created

So I had to apologize to all the guys in the world for my engagement because I turned up so much on it, but when you go on Jimmy Kimmel and say, "hey I'm a creative genius," I don't think people really understood what I was talking about. So let me make it so y'all can understand what I'm talking about when I say "creative genius" because that's my title

Michelle: Do you think you're misunderstood in that aspect? Do you think people just take things the wrong way?

Kanye: They just never heard it before. They never tasted that flavor yet

Michelle: I just think it's awesome because you have a certain thing about you that you say what's on your mind and your true to yourself and I think a lot of people don't know what to do with that because they're not.

Kanye: Yeah and that's what is. If I say, "hey I'm a creative genius," I don't know any other way to explain what I do and the way I think up things and the way I have to fight to get ideas out, had to fight to get my record deal, I'm fighting to be able to make clothes, I'm fighting to be able to make films. It's mixing creativity with the fight, like an athlete.

It's okay for athletes to fight and push it, but they want the creative people to shut up and be quiet. These are the people with the real ideas, that can actually change, can reorganize, can design cities, can restructure a curriculum, can can make life easier you know. That's the part of the game I wanna be in, the "making life more awesome" [field] because I'm so blessed.

I've had so many of my dreams come true. I'm getting married to my dream girl, I have a family, I have good friends around me, I've had some opportunities and what I realized is my greatest power...so, if you asked me a question before, "why am I coming, why am I speaking," I'm not a billionaire. I may not be the richest person on the planet, I might not be the most attractive guy, I might not be the most liked, but I - right now - because of "New Slaves" and because of the position I've always taken, have the most powerful voice by a mile and I'm going to use that. I have a trillion dollars worth of voice.

Michelle: And that's very very valuable. So you're talking about you're influences, with God and family and your life and enjoying life and, I was thinking just how much your life has changed even in the past six months to a year and how much has that changed your daily [life]. Does that mellow you out? Change your perspective on things?

Kanye: I hang out wit my the girl and my daughter everyday. There's no place I'd rather be, so now even when I was thinking about the things I'm creating or the things I'm doing in business, my biggest goal is to be able to get home to my family. So even, as I'm thinking about things I'm doing for the future, it's like how can I set it up so I can just be my daughter's soccer coach. How can I put myself in that position?

Michelle: I can't imagine you showing up at the soccer game, I just think that would be awesome.

Kanye: I'm going to be a soccer coach. Like, I'm going to design the uniforms, I'm going to have to redesigned the minivan maybe [laughs]. Maybe me and Elon Musk can design a new type of minivan.

Michelle: A new Kanye West mini van. See that's a partnership you could get on board with right there.

Kanye: Well DONDA, we want to create everything. We have a perspective on things you see, touch, taste, and feel, just the quality of life. We want to improve the quality of life. It is a product, experience, and content company. So, a form of content could be Yeezus. That is a form of content. Experience could be the concert you went to. A product could be the Yeezy's. Those are examples of things that a collective of creative people have put together

Michelle: I like that because I thought you're on the way to doing things differently, all the promotion around your album. It was really like just awesome to me, because it wasn't the traditional roll out that they do to radio where they send the single and then they're doing is they're doing that and, you know, you're doing an appearance on, you know, whatever TV show. But it was really cool. It was like when you showed in over 60 cities. You showed the-- you know, I wouldn't even call them videos. It was more of like a-- just an art exhibition that you did in these different cities. It is kind of, "What's spurred that, to do it that way?"

Kanye: I mean, we have dreams. We wake up, and we make them happen. I appreciate that my label allowed me to go unorthodox with that. And there's people at the label who appreciate it and there's people who don't appreciate that. It's like non-traditional in that way. But I have to push. And really, it's all practice to me. Being a musician is practice. Life is practice. You know, so it's not like a in go-- so I'm fine to make a mistake. I'm fine to, like, put out an auto tune album that no one understands. I'm fine to put out a complete punk new wave album that no one understands. I'm not trying to maintain, you know, some spot in the hip-hop charts on radio or something like that. I'm trying to open up people's minds. I want people to think more. I want people to feel like it's okay to create. I want people to feel like it's okay to make mistakes in front of people and follow what their dreams are and not feel boxed in. I want people to feel like, you know, awesome is possible. I want them to, you know, feel like, you know-- it's not a matter of just even what I'm doing at DONDA. It's the amount of people that are hearing me and now they're going to fight to get the best ideas out. Because the world will only be saved through good intention and design, It's not going to be saved is politics. The irony is, what holds things back? Politics! So how could that push things forward?

Michelle: I heard you say that you were trying to work out a deal with the Gap and politics held you back from doing that with your merchandise for the tour, and it may be just wonder what, sort of-- elaborate on that. What are you talking about when you say "politics?"

Kanye: I mean it, like, what would happen if I was able to design a collection and was like backed by the Gap? It would be awesome, right?

Michelle: It would totally be awesome, but then my question for you is, but you have-- you're not hurting. You're doing well, so couldn't you just do that yourself? You don't need the Gap.

Kanye: No, you can't. You need the infrastructure. It's not a matter of just having money.

Michelle: But you have a great staff set up in everything, I feel like...

Kanye: No, I don't have a great staff at all. That is a skill set that takes years and years of anything. If I wanted to get into the coal business and I had-- and also, "well-off" is that, that is-- what's the word I'm looking for? I'm trying to use the simplest word sometimes. Yeah, it's all relative. Because I'm not, because, okay-- I could make an amount that seems, like, really crazy to people, like 10 million a year, right? To open up a new fashion company might costs 15 million. So if I went and took all the money I had and I invested it into trying to do it like that, it could leave me 5 million in debt.

Michelle: That's fair enough, I get that.

Kanye: And then you're not well-off.

Michelle: That's-- yeah-- I'm sorry, I know it's not all about money, but I've just been saying that the team that you have at DONDA and-- I would think that you could hire anybody that may want to come and work for you.

Kanye: I'll-- now we are. Because of what we're doing. Because of the way we're turning up. Now we can get real designers, real infrastructure. But it's really hard. Just as much as, you know, getting a creative person is hard, it's hard to get the back office guys; the people that run the-- [?] who do the real work. Yeah, you get the Rihannas, the Big Seans, the Kanyes, but you need the Barry Weiss, the Steve Barlows and [?], and like these people, you know, all the people all the people who get mentioned on the Grammy speeches, and you just can't, that's-- what you're saying is like-- Okay, you're a major recording artist because you signed to a major label. Can't you just do independent clothing? The answer is, "No." Now, can't you just get a clothing deal from a major label? The answer is, also, currently is, "No." And that's the issue. That's the Truman Show wall. That's the glass ceilings. That's the Michael Jackson can't get his video played. Because everybody-- nobody is looking at what Obama is wearing. I'm the number one most influential person on the globe in fashion. [?] is a great designer. I love Saint Laurent and their $1 million dollar jackets and everything. I love it. But, I should have backing from one in the majors. Louis Vuitton group which is Bernard Arnault, Karen group, which is France Rapinoe, or Renzo Rosso, who owns Diesel and Margiela. Bottom line. And that's the only way it's going to be, because the thing is, when you try to go, you know, when you go less that, the level of the product is just isn't where should be. Yeah I'm doing T-shirts that are amazing. We put all our design into it, and so many people like T-shirts. And I love that. I get people T-shirts. But I also want to create entire gyms. Like gyms. Like I want to make a gym. I wanna make a store. I want to do apartment complexes. I want to build cities. I want to be involved with hyperloop when it comes to reality, with Eli Musk. That's the conversation I want to be in. So I will not be held into a box of being a musician, or that you get it somehow confused. I don't look like a rapper. Now rappers look like me, but when I started, I wasn't gangsta enough. You know what I'm saying? Like, I'm getting married to Kim Kardashian, and I've never played in the NBA.

Michelle: Oh my god.

Kanye: So, that's thought.

Michelle: You know, you raise a really good point here. If you just joined us, I'm Michelle and we're live on 97.1 Radio Los Angeles with Kanye West. You know, in creativity in rap music, do you think that, because I don't-- you definitely don't do things like everybody else. Do you think there's a certain lack of originality and creativity, not, you know, I'm not going to say that for all rap, but it seems like you do things a little differently. And a love that that; with music, I mean.


Kanye: There's a lack of creativity in every field, because people are afraid. Because the powers control people. And the only place where people can be fully creative is in Silicon Valley. Everything else, there's an old regime. And oligarchs are controlling whether or not you're going to be able to feed your kids. So no one can say the type of stuff that I'm saying because they'll lose their job.

There is a a lack in creativity in Hollywood. There's a lack in creativity in clothing. There's a lack creativity in the education system. There's a lack in creativity on the globe period! @hen you look up and look at billboard ads, the majority of them suck. There's a lack creativity in advertising, in agencies. There's just a lack, because the person with the good idea needs to pay dues for 20 years before their positioned to say the idea, and they might not have the relevancy anymore. Right now, I have the relevancy and I have the perspective and I have the voice and I'm going to scream as loud as I can. And ain't nothing gon' happen to me except success.

Michelle: You're here to save it, man. At least, like, change it, which I love. Whoo! That heat, I love that.

There's so much passion because I share a lot of the same-- where the view is my passion, and I feel like people don't always get it. You know, and they're like, "Gosh, it's kind of harsh" with everyone. You've just got to be true to yourself. You know? I got to-- by the way, before I forget, you know with your clothing and your fashion, we were just talking about your merch line.

Kanye: Really quick, and don't forget your question, please. I wanna stop using the term "fashion," because Eve made Adam bite an apple. And since then, it's been illegal to be naked. I'm helping people follow the law in style. I'm helping people with their opinion on how to follow the law. This isn't about fashion. I'm creating new standards, things so you don't have to think about it. Fashion is too high of a skill set. It just needs to be easy. Easy as the hoodie and jeans that I'm wearing. And I'll do all the hard work. I'll figure out exactly where that collar goes and exactly where that hoodie sits and-- and how many times you can wash that fabric and stuff so that it looks better 5 years from now. I'll do the hard work for you. Fashion is forcing people to do all this hard work where you look back 2 years from now and say, "That looked crazy!"
