PLAYBOY: Let’s start with the seven words that made national headlines: g“George Bush doesn’t care about black people.” Had you planned on saying that, or was it an ad-lib?

WEST: I’ve never been asked this question before, but I totally didn’t plan to say it. I planned the bullet points about the media portraying black people as looters and how it took the government so long to go down there to help. Bad news is great news, and I felt like CNN, NBC and all these stations were capitalizing on the tragedy.

PLAYBOY: Describe what led to your making that statement.

WEST: Tim McGraw did a song, and it was really emotional, showing all the imagery from New Orleans. When I went up to read the Teleprompter, I just thought what was on it wasn’t heartfelt enough. They wanted me to read some random point about the levees. Mike Myers and I talked about how we had a problem with that word. He said, g“I just don’t want to mispronounce levees.” That was his main goal when we went up there. He was already nervous, and I told him, “Yo, I might stray off the Teleprompter a little bit.” I told him I was going to ad-lib. I was talking to him backstage, and I saw Chris Tucker. I remember telling Chris, “Get ready for live TV.”

PLAYBOY: Did Myers say anything when you got off-camera?

WEST: He shook my hand and said, g“It is what it is.”

PLAYBOY: What kind of greeting did you get backstage?

WEST: The Red Cross and the NBC execs didn’t say anything to me. They acted like I wasn’t even in the building. Before that, it was all VIP.

PLAYBOY: How did the day end?

WEST: At the bar, taking shots of Patrón. [laughs] You know, if you go up and hit the class bully in his face, you’re like, m“What am I going to do tomorrow?” I still live in a country that George Bush controls.

PLAYBOY: When NBC broadcast the telethon on the West Coast, it cut your comment about the president.

WEST: I thought that was great because it proved my point about the media. It let America know that the media still censors us and monitors us and brainwashes us. For them to chop it, everybody in America was like, g“Oh shit, they still do that? I thought this was America.” Yeah, this is America. This is America.

PLAYBOY: Did the reaction surprise you?

WEST: A lot of people feel that Bush doesn’t care about poor people. It’s a common opinion.

PLAYBOY: But you didn’t say he doesn’t care about poor people; you said he doesn’t care about black people. There’s a difference.

WEST: There just happen to be way more poor black people. If you pick at the statement, I’m sure you could find something wrong, but that was the overall feeling of America at the time.

PLAYBOY: Entertainers don’t often really speak their mind, especially not on live TV.

WEST: And entertainers who would say what they’re thinking wouldn’t be given that opportunity on live TV. Networks are more apt to put a five-second delay on me now. They didn’t really listen to g“All Falls Down” and “Jesus Walks” and “Crack Music.” They just heard the hooks. They didn’t hear what I was saying about social issues. With my polo collars popped, they never saw me coming.

PLAYBOY: There’s an element of social awareness to your music but also a party element. They probably thought they were going to get the second guy.

WEST: I bet they wouldn’t have put Dave Chappelle up there. But that’s who I am: I’m like the rap version of Chappelle.

PLAYBOY: What’s the similarity?

WEST: He talks about serious things, but he makes you laugh to keep from crying. The humor is the honey in the medicine.

PLAYBOY: Actually Chappelle’s been doing a joke about you: g“I gotta give props to my man Kanye West because he said some real shit. That took a lot of bravery and a lot of strength. I’m proud of Kanye. And I’m gonna miss him so much.”

WEST: [Laughs] Oh shit. That’s why we were popping Patrón that night.

PLAYBOY: Laura Bush denounced your comment as disgusting, and Bill O’Reilly said it was g“simply nutty” and called you a “dopey little rapper.” Did any of the criticism bother you?

WEST: I didn’t even know that until now. I care as much about Bill O’Reilly as I care about somebody at my show who goes to the bathroom during g“Jesus Walks.” I’m not going to stop the song; I’m not going to stop my show. Matter of fact, I need to never say his name again, because I’m making him too hot right now.

PLAYBOY: He does love to pick on rappers.

WEST: He can’t pick on us. He picks at us. We’re like statues. He picks at pop-culture icons, which is what we rappers are right now, like modern-day royalty.

PLAYBOY: Did anything about the coverage of your comments bother you?

WEST: People kept misquoting me and using incorrect English: [in an exaggerated dialect] m“George Bush don’t be carin’ ’bout no black people.” And I’m like, “I didn’t say that.”

PLAYBOY: Has the comment hurt you in any way? It seems you got a lot of publicity from it.

WEST: I wouldn’t say it was the smartest business move. At this point I’m not going to say any more things that could be harmful to me. PLAYBOY: So we shouldn’t ask for your position on the war in Iraq or Supreme Court nominees?

WEST: I’m not into politics at all. I can’t even name the people in politics. That’s not what I do. I’ve learned from this how powerful my voice is. It’s like going to your bank to take out $20 and seeing $1 million in your account. You’re like, g“Oh shit, what am I gonna do with this?” Now I know my voice is powerful, and I just try to use it wisely.

PLAYBOY: During the telethon, you announced you were going to donate g“the biggest amount I can give.” So how much did you donate?

WEST: I would never tell you that. I called my business manager, and I was like, g“Yo, what’s the most I can give?” And that’s what we gave.

PLAYBOY: You won’t name an amount?

WEST: I’ll just say it’s way more than I would have made in a year if I’d gone to college and gotten my doctorate.

PLAYBOY: Before your career as a rapper, you were one of the biggest producers in hip-hop. How good a rapper are you? The New Yorker described you as m“merely average,” and Entertainment Weekly said you have a m“clunky flow.”

WEST: I’m nowhere near as good as Jay-Z, Eminem or Nas. So I compensate.

PLAYBOY: How do you compensate?

WEST: With star power, sheer energy, entertainment, videos, really good outfits and overwhelmingly, ridiculously dope tracks. Justin Timberlake isn’t the best singer, but he’s a true star, the entire package. The main thing I use to make up for my lack of rapping skills is my content, my subject matter.

PLAYBOY: What’s an example?

WEST: I’ll use words or rhymes no other rapper has used. Raps m“Take your diamonds and throw 'em up like you’re bulimic/ Yeah, the beat cold, but the flow is anemic.” Damn, nobody would ever rhyme those two words together. When they come up with a hip-hop curriculum, I want my raps to be in the textbooks.