Colbert: "My next guest is a local Michigander who is making a name for himself in the competitive world of music."

Colbert: "I'll name some Bob Seger songs and you see whether you can sing any part of them, ok. Against The Wind."
Eminem: (singing) Against the Wind. Running against the wind."
Colbert: "I gave that away because it's in the title." How about Like a Rock?"

Colbert: "Are these (songs) ringing any bells?"
Eminem: "Yes, they are. You're going really fast, though."
Colbert: "I thought you were a rapper. Don't rappers talk fast? Are you one of those slow talking rappers or one of the fast talking rappers?"
Eminem: "I can be both I guess."

Colbert: "What kind of rap do you do? Are you like, sing some and rap some like Bone Thugs n-Harmony or are you more street like Will Smith?"
Eminem: "Middle."

Colbert: "Are you more political or more booty rhymes?"
Eminem: "In the middle."
Colbert: "Right in the middle of the booty."
Eminem: Right in the crack, probably.
Colbert: "It's a steamy place to have your career."

Colbert: "Can we see his face, he's got a hoodie on? Is lighting ok with that?" Have you thought about taking the hoodie down? That's such a cute face, why hide it? It's your moneymaker."

Colbert: "Where do you hope this goes? Is this a career? Or more of a hobby?
Eminem: "It's both."
Colbert: "Do you have a fallback position? Is there something else you know how to do like carpentry or HVAC? We're always going to need HVAC?"
Eminem: "Carpentry sounds like it could be good."

Colbert: "You need to think 10 years down the line am I going to have a retirement account. You just have to make plans when the dream dies. You know, dreams die. It happens. Fun is fun."
Eminem: "I'm so confused right now. I'm trying to figure out if you're serious."
Colbert: "I'm very serious, if you don't have a retirement account when you're 50, you're dead in the water. You're a greeter at Walmart at that point. I am Marshall, children's toys are that way"
Eminem: "You really don't know? I mean, I've put out quite a few albums."
Colbert: "I'm sure that feels good. "It doesn't pay the rent."
Eminem: "It sorta does pay the rent."
Colbert: "Good. What have you done?"
Eminem: "Are you serious right now?"
Colbert: "I'd like to apologize. If you're a bigger deal than I know about... this is on my research people... I wanna know who you are. I just don't know who you are."

Colbert: "You were getting pretty angry a second ago."
Eminem: "I think I just look angry."
Colbert: "That's good. That works for rap."

Colbert: "If you were about to go, I'm not backing down. You're in my house. You come into my house and you flex up on me and you expect me to back down, you are sadly mistaken... hoodie."
Eminem: "I'm not sure what to do here."

Colbert: "I understand that 'Southpaw' comes out July 24th. Will it only be playing in Monroe, or all across Michigan?"
Eminem: "It should be playing all across Michigan and hopefully beyond."
Colbert: "Congratulations... that is (singing) phenomenal."

Colbert: "Well, Marshall Mathers, thank you so much for joining me."
Eminem: "Am I performing next?"
Colbert: "That would be great, but we are kinda tight on time. Come back in August because I think I'm hosting again."
Colbert: "I apologize, yeah, I know who you are. You're the dude who did the thing with Elton John at the Grammys.
Eminem: "See, you know it. Can I perform now?"
Colbert: "No, we don't have time. Let's take a peak at Monroe's community calendar. Marshall, would you like to help me out with this?"
Eminem: "Well, it says on the teleprompter that I'm supposed to say I'd love to Stephen."
Colbert: "That's great, thanks."