Q: Are we in some sort of giant scientific experiment?

Tyson: The power of science is unique in our culture because of its capacity to predict future events, not only based on rhythms of the past, as ancients have done, but also our modern understandings of how nature works and what our interaction with nature is. And you run these models, you get the best understanding available, and we make a prediction. Do people put their head in the sand? Do they say, I choose not to believe that, not realizing, as Ann just said, that nature is the ultimate judge, jury and executioner of your ideas? So, yeah, we're in an experiment (in whether the world will listen to scientists). And when we come out on the other side, we may be better off for it, but it's quite costly to have gotten there.

Q: How can the average person distinguish between the real science and the pseudo science that they see on the internet?

Tyson: It's hard. What does the internet do? It gives you access to information unfiltered. Before the internet, there were these gates: editorial boards at newspapers, editors at publishing houses. There were these gateways. And yes, occasionally, crap would get through, but basically you could pass judgment on the likelihood of something being correct based on the editorial traditions of the entity that you were referencing. That's gone. So much more of that burden, because it is a burden, is now on the shoulders of the individual, and so this is why science is more than just how much you know. Science is a toolkit for how to query information. Science literacy is a way of thinking, a way of engaging the act and the art of asking questions.

Q: Scientists who make great efforts at public education and communication sometimes get dismissed by their peers as popularizers or generalists. So doesn’t the scientific community bear some of the responsibility here?

Tyson: There’s blame enough to go around, but we're still talking about people who are in charge who are denying science. They're the ones with the actual power. Scientists don't wield the power that politicians do or that the electorate does. To imply that we might have a rise of flat-earthers because scientists historically were prevented from communicating with the public — there are other forces going on out there that require all of our collective effort, media as well, to try to fight.

Q: Are human beings bad at rational risk assessment?

Tyson: That's something that is just ignored in school. When my wife and I had our kids, I got a hold of a book that assessed all the causes of death at every age of your life, ranked by highest risk to lowest risk at every age. And you can watch things transform as you get older. Certain causes of death go away, others rise up. My wife and I coordinated to reduce the risks that were maximum according to the statistics, not that we ignored what our feelings were about a risk. That still matters, because that's why we're all living human beings.

Q: Is it hard to persuade "young invincibles" to stay home during the coronavirus pandemic?

Tyson: That message took a while, because the bars were all filled with the 20-somethings for so long, but they all have a grandparent (who could get infected). I think that's what ultimately did it. Otherwise, in a free country, if the risk you take only affects you, then the most you can do is communicate to that person what those risks are, and then they make their own decisions. But it's no longer a free country if that person taking risk with their own life puts your life at risk. That's an important message to communicate.

Q: Now that a lot of parents are home-schooling, how can they try to get their kids interested in science?

Tyson: Anyone who's had kids knows that they're born into this world curious. They're curious about everything. Their curiosity operates on a level where at a young enough age that curiosity can actually kill them. But what parents often do is constrain that curiosity to the point where the curiosity is viewed as something bad. Managed curiosity is something that you don't have to instill within children. Since they're born with it, you just have to, sort of, not get in their way.

Q: Is the pandemic likely to lead to more focus on the life sciences and more people studying these sciences in medical school?

Tyson: Often, the greatest investments that we make are the “I don't want to die" investments: I fear that I have an enemy, so let me have money flow like rivers. It turns out, a virus is an enemy. It's an enemy that's attacking everyone. … That virus doesn't carry a passport. It can move across borders at will. So in a sense, it is a war, and people behave differently when they fear death than any other way that I know. Will this prompt more people to go into biology? Most certainly.

