Goodreads: If people don't like science, or say they don't like science, why try to reach them?

Neil deGrasse Tyson: Because we're all members of the same society and culture and civilization. And as we get deeper in the 21st century, literacy in science will become more fundamental to decisions you have to make that involve your future, especially your future health, your future wealth, and your future security. So if you don't want to know anything about science, you become disenfranchised from participating in all that it will take to improve your future.

GR: I was really intrigued by Chapter 12, which explores the cosmic perspective. If I'm summarizing accurately, it's about having the wisdom to know our small place in the universe and allowing that to expand what it means to be human.

NDT: If you had to put it in a sentence, that works. It's about how having a cosmic perspective can completely change your outlook on your place relative to others in the world and just who and what you are. It can reestablish, or differently establish, your priorities in life.

GR: What role does the cosmic perspective play in your life?

NDT: This sounds like a weird boast, but it just is: Every boy I grew up with, at some point between K through 12, got into a fight with another person. One hundred percent of them. I'm not talking about gang fights. I'm just talking about schoolyard fights.

I never got into a fight. I was the anomaly. And I've known that I've been interested in the universe since I was nine. Could it be that my cosmic perspective, embedded in me from very early, prevented me from ever possibly valuing what it was to fight someone?

If you look from high above, which is what the cosmic perspective provides for you, it is so petty. So it helps me make certain decisions about what is important and what is not in this world.

GR: Here's a question from Goodreads member Spicy T AKA Mr Tea: How has race affected your work in astrophysics and the world of science?

NDT: Growing up, wanting to be an astrophysicist from childhood, this was definitely the path of most resistance. No one shared the views that I had of myself. Teachers would say, "Oh, you should be an athlete." I'd say "astrophysicist" and they wouldn't know what it was, or they would ignore it, or they'd guide me to some other athletic endeavor.

So I ignored them and just kept pushing. It takes energy, though, to always resist forces pushing against you. My love for the universe is so deep that I could always draw from these huge fuel tanks to resist such forces of life and of culture.

If anyone was bigoted or racist, it would only matter if they were between me and my goal. But if, say, a taxi didn't stop for me, which still happens to this day but not as often as decades ago, then they were not between me and my goal. It was just a little bit of extra tax I had to pay each day.

Life is too short to let that get under your skin. It's also too short to try to change all of them one by one. I would rather spend that intellectual energy learning how the universe works.

GR: I'm impressed by a lot of what you just shared, and one quality is kind of a buzzword now: grit.

NDT: I don't think of it as grit. I think of it as enthusiasm. Enthusiasm overrides everything. If you really love something, nothing else matters. You will do it, even at the expense of personal hygiene. You'll miss a meal. That's not grit, that's love. So my love ran deep.

GR: What can a parent do to cultivate this in their kids?

NDT: Not that I'm Father Time or anything, but I have two kids. One aged 20 and one aged 16. What my wife and I did with them is what my parents did with me, which is, exposed us to as many different things as possible, allowed our own natural curiosity to manifest, and have that curiosity select what it wants to do in life.

Rather than say, "I want my kid to be what I never was." Whatever that might have been. Or, "I'm a medical doctor; I want my kid to be a medical doctor."

In a free country, in a free society, with free speech, that should be the last thing you do. Do you own them? But I understand it happens. I don't know if the kid will be as happy as they possibly could have been because you don't have evidence of it being homegrown within them.

GR: I have a hypothetical scenario for you. Suppose you were trapped at the bottom of a potential energy well, with no hope of reaching escape velocity. However, you were orbiting a source of light, rotating such that you were able to read books for roughly half the time. Suppose further that within the potential energy well, you were situated on a small, remote, arid location surrounded by dihydrogen oxide in its liquid phase, thus rendering you trapped. If you could have only three books with you, what would they be?

NDT: If I'm surrounded by water, I'm not trapped if I can swim and I'm inventive. I can make a boat! This is not Gilligan's Island if you have creativity. Ha! I don't always accept all constraints that other people place on me! Let me just start with that.

Secondly, in terms of books, hmmm…I'm not one of these people who reads a book a hundred times. I read a book, I get it, and I move on. I think I would bring Gulliver's Travels and Principia by Isaac Newton. And then…I'd bring my Kindle. How do you like that? Now I have a thousand books! You can't fool me! You can't imprison me!

What I really want is a pen and a lot of paper, and maybe it's time to write a book about being stranded on a desert island surrounded by dihydrogen oxide.

GR: I would read that book.

NDT: I might need the Newton to jump-start civilization if the rest of the world renders itself extinct. I trace the industrial revolution to the discoveries of Isaac Newton's book Principia. In it Newton shows that the universe is knowable. It's not a bunch of mystical forces. Things happen in the universe, and mathematics describes it. So if all civilization is gone, you need to read something to jump-start it, and that would do it.

GR: Why Gulliver's Travels?

NDT: Oh, I just find the stories fanciful. Most people who haven't read the book think only of the one in the movies, where he's a giant among the little people, the Lilliputians. But there are all these other voyages that are so well written. And it's got so much keen insight into human nature.

GR: You've been in the news recently for your suggestions for Beyoncé's baby names. What prompted that?

NDT: Well, what I tweet are just thoughts I'm having. I don't sit down and say, "What am I going to tweet today?"

Beyoncé's other kid is named Blue Ivy. Well, if you named your kid Blue Ivy, then all bets are off. The next kid is not going to be named Joe or Mary. So, I thought, in the universe there are a lot of terms that come in pairs. My field has fun names for things. I thought I would rattle off a list of them, just in case she wanted to stay exotic with the names of her kids. And many of the names were gender neutral. It's not announced whether it's two boys, two girls, or one of each.

GR: Are you rooting for a pair of names?

NDT: Quinn and Tessence, two parts of the word quintessence.

GR: I'm curious to know if there's one question you just get asked all the time.

NDT: Fortunately there is a lot out there that triggers people's interest. None of them runs away with it, but ones that come up: Are we alone in the universe? What was around before the universe…could it have been God? Religion shows up a lot. Mostly just god, without any reference to which god. Here in the United States, typically it's the Judeo-Christian god that people reference. Generally they want to know where religion fits.

People ask if I believe in the Big Bang as though it's some kind of belief system. Then I explain, it's what the evidence shows. It's not a matter of belief. Lately some people ask me if the world is flat. I'm greatly worried about this.

GR: Wait. Lately? People ask you that?

NDT: Yeah. There's a whole flat-earth movement. Where've you been? You need to get out more. Just type "flat-earth" and watch what comes up. It's all current news…that's a hot question now. And the fact that it's a question means we're regressing as a culture. Because questions are barometers of where ignorance is most manifested. When people start saying, "I choose not to believe scientists who tell me that we're warming the earth," that's an indicator of a failure deep in the educational system.

GR: What do you even say to that?

NDT: I rebutted one of them once. But then I said, I'm not going to do this anymore, and so I don't. They can think what they want. It only becomes an issue if you think Earth is flat and then somehow someone appoints you to be the head of NASA. But there are plenty of jobs for you if you think Earth is flat, where your ignorance does not harm anyone. In a free society, in a free culture, we have freedom of speech and thought, so go right ahead. I'm not going to debate you. Life is too short.

GR: I have one last question from a Goodreads member. Holly asks: If you had to choose only one more great discovery in the field of astrophysics to be made in your lifetime, what would it be?

NDT: That we would find evidence of life someplace other than Earth. That'd be very cool. Let me not even say intelligent life because that's asking too much. Just microbial life. We'd learn that it encodes information differently from life on Earth. For example, maybe it does not have DNA. I'd be really curious about that.