Jim Clash: What’s the dumbest question you’ve been asked?
Neil deGrasse Tyson: I once showed an image of the asteroid that took out the dinosaurs striking Earth. You see pterodactyls flying in the atmosphere, a Tyrannosaurus rex down on the ground; it’s all beautifully painted. Someone in the front row suddenly asked, “Is that an actual photograph?” I was just ready to give up at that point and go home -- everything I’d lived for was for naught [laughs].
JC: But most questions, are they fairly intelligent?
NDT: Yes, that particular one stands alone. Others, even if they might at first sound like not good questions, I try to turn into good answers. There is always a place I can take someone’s curiosity and land where they end up enlightened when we’re done. That’s my challenge as an educator. No one is dumb who is curious. The people who don’t ask questions remain clueless throughout their lives.
JC: You do have a great way of making complicated science easy for the average person. Were you born that way?
NDT: Maybe it isn’t really that complex to begin with [laughs]. The first time I ever explained something to someone in any important way was eighth grade. We were learning matrices in math class. It seemed so simple to me how to use and manipulate them. But I also remembered not understanding them initially. So when I saw others struggling, I thought, “Maybe they are not thinking about it in the same pathways I am.” I realized that there are pathways of thought that might not be obvious to some people, and when you learn of them you can make acquiring knowledge much easier. Then I realized that the more ways I thought about how I knew things, the more useful that could be to others still struggling. In other words, there is a difference between those who learn something instantly, and those who struggle. I don’t know that the first group would be as useful in teaching others.
JC: There is debate about whether a manned mission should go back to the moon first, then Mars -- or go directly to Mars, as the unmanned Curiosity rover just did. Your thoughts?
NDT: Destinations distract from the conversation of what should be happening. “Where should we go first?” implies that space is a sequence of priorities rather than access being the priority itself. Yes, NASA is underfunded, but I will not prioritize spending in an underfunded budget. And as long as NASA is underfunded, it implies that space is a luxury item in the spending on national priorities. I don’t think it’s a luxury item -- in fact, I think it’s fundamental to many things at the top of the list of our economic health. My goal would be to have the country build a fleet of launch vehicles that can take us anywhere we want -- the moon, Mars, asteroids, the moons of other planets -- for whatever the need is at the time, whether mining, touristic, militaristic, scientific or security because an asteroid is headed our way. We didn’t build the interstate system to connect New York to Los Angeles because the West Coast was a priority. No, we webbed the highways so people can go to multiple places and invent ways of doing things not thought of by the persons building the roads. Highways build capacity into your country; it’s the creativity of citizenry that exploits it. So we should be able go to all places in space at the same time by whatever means the needs and urges of the sectors choose.
