Mr. Graham: (00:00)
… I want to talk about here is health risk associated with social media. A 2018 Pew Research Center survey of nearly 750, 13 to 17 year olds found that 45% are online almost constantly and 97% use social media platforms such as YouTube, Facebook, Instagram, or Snapchat. So why are we having this hearing? The products that these two companies offer, people like and they use. So the bottom line is they’ve probably been more successful than their wildest dreams, and they’re having to make decisions that offend people on the left and the right. And what we’re trying to do is look at Section 230 and to see if it needs to be modified or changed because Section 230 basically allows social media platforms like Twitter and Facebook to pass on information without legal liability. If a newspaper does something you don’t like, you think they’ve slandered you in a certain way, you can sue them.

Mr. Graham: (01:15)
If a news program does something that you think is out of line, even as a politician with a high bar, you can sue them. These companies have a liability protection when it comes to the content that their users engage in. You can sue the person who gave the tweet, but you can’t sue Twitter who gave that person access to the world in terms of what they said. And we got to find a way to make sure that when Twitter and Facebook make a decision about what’s reliable and what’s not, what to keep up, what to take down, that there’s transparency in the system. And I think Section 230 has to be changed because we can’t get there from here without change. But in 2019, a study of more than 6500, 12 to 15 year olds in the US found that those who spent more than three hours a day using social media might be at heightened risk for mental health problems.

Mr. Graham: (02:21)
Another study 12,000, 13 to 16 year olds in England found that using social media more than three times a day, predicted poor mental health and wellbeing in teens. Other studies also have observed links between high levels of social media use, depression or anxiety. The average millennial checks their phone 157 times daily. I don’t know how a member of the Senate, I don’t know where we fall. Social media is designed to sustain user’s attention with a mix of good user interface, design, and psychology, creating an addictive mix for users. It’s called the slot machine effect. A technique which utilizes a pull to refresh and scrolling mechanisms on newsfeed similar a slot machine. The like button, a feature to provide social validation through a positive feedback loop my measuring and comparing the number of likes a users’ content obtains. Gamifying social interactions, employing gamification to engage users and keep them coming back.

Mr. Graham: (03:35)
For example, streaks is the one causing the most concern and using elongating red lines to display the number of days since two users interacted. Guess what these technologies do is try to keep us engaged. The more we engage the technology, the more advertising benefit to the company. Is that a good business practice? Maybe so. Does it create a health hazard over time? It’s something to look at. Now, the other aspect of this debate is are these companies newspapers or they’re TV stations? Do they have the power of media organizations that have rules and regulations and the current media platforms do not? There are rules about what a television station can do. There are rules about what a newspaper can do. And what I want to try to find out is if you’re not a newspaper at Twitter or Facebook, then why do you have editorial control over the New York Post?

Mr. Graham: (04:52)
They decided, and maybe for a good reason I don’t know, that the New York Post articles about Hunter Biden needed to be flagged, excluded from distribution or made hard to find. That to me, seems like you’re the ultimate editor. The editorial decision at the New York Post to run the story was overwritten by Twitter and Facebook in different fashions to prevent its dissemination. Now, if that’s not making an editorial decision, I don’t know what would be. It’s one thing when we do it in our private lives. Nikki Haley made a post about her concerns about mail-in balloting. It was flagged as something, a claim this hasn’t been legitimatized.

Mr. Graham: (05:53)
Let me read it to you. “The next question to ask is why is it a crime to raise doubts about the Holocaust? Why should anyone who writes about such doubts be imprisoned while insulting the prophet is allowed?” Now, that’s the Ayatollah. He’s opining that raising doubts about the Holocaust shouldn’t be a crime and he is openly called for the destruction of Israel. His regime has. and his tweet was basically allowed to flourish. Here’s what Nikki Haley said. “Despite what the media tells us, election fraud does happen and policies like ballot harvesting, and mailing ballots to people who don’t request them makes that easier. That needs to stop.” This claim about election fraud is disputed. Well, that’s her opinion.

Mr. Graham: (06:57)
She believes, like I do, that mail-in balloting is ripe for fraud if you can’t verify the signature. And if we just send mail ballots out to the world that are not requested, and you don’t have a signature verification system that can be trusted, you have in fact led to harvesting of ballots for nefarious purposes. The question for us as a country, at what point did the decisions by these organizations cross a line? At what point do they have to assume responsibility that Section 230 shields them from? And to the people who are about to testify, I consider your products to have changed the world, mostly for the good. We’re able to interact among ourselves. We’re able to talk to each other and share life experiences. We’re able to real-time communicate to our neighbors and our friends and those who oppose us. What we think with technology that just makes it instantaneous and can literally light up the world.

Mr. Graham: (08:13)
Section 230 was developed to allow these technologies to flourish. Early on, if you could sue Twitter or Facebook for content on a Facebook posting or a tweet, and they were liable for what somebody else said or what they felt or did, then the company would have probably never been in existence. The companies are trying to help us deal with child pornography. We have the EARN IT Act. That to be able to maintain liability protections when it comes to sexual exploitation of social media sites about sexual predators, this committee has passed a bill saying you can only maintain that liability protection if in fact you use best business practices. And that’s where I think we need to be going. My hope is that we change Section 230 to incentivize social media platforms to come up with standards that are transparent and opaque that will allow us to make judgements about their judgments. That the fact checkers be known. That the community standards, who sets them, what are their biases and give some direction to these companies because they have almost an impossible task.

Mr. Graham: (09:38)
They’re literally trying to engage in telling us what’s reliable and what’s not based on cable news commentary or tweets from politicians or average citizens. Nobody in a free society has ever had that responsibility before. And the question is, how do you control that responsibility? I don’t want the government to take over the job of telling America what tweets are legitimate and what are not. I don’t want the government deciding what content to take up and put down. I think we’re all in that category. But when you have companies that have the power of governments, have far more power than traditional media outlets, something has to give. And I’m hoping in this hearing today that we can find a baseline of agreement.

Mr. Graham: (10:41)
That Section 230 needs to be changed. That my bias would be to allow the industry itself, to develop best business practices to protect the sites against terrorism and child exportation and other concerns. That we look at the business practices of these companies through a health prism. That some of their practices need to be modified because it can become addictive. We thought tobacco was a good thing for a long time to the point that we sent it to our soldiers in combat. The more we realized about the addictive nature of tobacco, the more we changed our mind about telling the public about the product.

Mr. Graham: (11:22)
So whether or not we do that with social media platforms, that these platforms can be addictive if used too often. I don’t know if we need to go there, but I do know that Section 230 exists today is got to give. And I think there’s Republican and Democrat concern about the power that’s being used by social media outlets to tell us what we can see and what we can. What’s true and what’s not to the extent that Section 230 in my view has to be rewritten. So that’s the purpose of this hearing is to find a way forward to bring about change. And when it comes to social media platforms and Section 230, change is going to come. With that, Senator Blumenthal.

Senator Blumenthal: (12:10)
Thank you very, very much Mr. Chairman. And thank you for having this hearing today. And I look forward to cooperating with you not only in this hearing, but in the up coming Congress on our own EARN IT bill, on other measures, because you’re absolutely right. Change must come to social media. The fact is we meet today in an unprecedented and precarious moment in American history. Daily, the president shocks our conscience and shakes the very foundations of our democracy using a powerful megaphone, social media. The president has used this microphone to spread vicious falsehoods and an apparent attempt to overturn the will of voters. Every day, he posts new threats and conspiracy theories about mail-in ballots and voting machines, lies that contradict his own election security officials and his lawyers. He uses this megaphone potentially to block a peaceful transition of power. Now, Mr. Zuckerberg and Mr. Dorsey, you have built terrifying tools of persuasion and manipulation with power far exceeding the robber barons of the last Guilded Age.

Senator Blumenthal: (13:35)
You have profited hugely by strip mining data about our private lives and promoting hate speech and voter suppression. You have an immense civic and moral responsibility to ensure these instruments of influence do not irreparably harm our country. I recognize the steps. They’re really baby steps that you’ve taken so far. The destructive incendiary misinformation is still a scourge on both your platforms and on others. In fact, Google has been given a pass from today’s hearing. It’s been rewarded by this committee for its timidity, doing even less than you have done to live up to its responsibilities. The recent actions you have taken in fact are simply to check the truth of what appears on platform. Often it is voter suppression and incendiary malicious misinformation. And you’ve tried to slow its insidious spread. That’s not censorship, that’s moral and civic responsibility.

Senator Blumenthal: (14:48)
Now, I believe and I hope the chairman agrees that a series of hearings on big tech is long overdue on antitrust issues, on privacy concerns and Section 230. I have urged, in fact, a breakup of tech giants because they’ve misused their bigness and power. Breaking off, for example, WhatsApp and Instagram. Rigorous privacy protection, because consumers should have control over their own data. And indeed Section 230 reform, meaningful reform, including even possible repeal in large part because their immunity is way too broad and victims of their harms deserve a day in court. But this hearing is certainly not the serious proceeding that we need. It may become a political sideshow, a public tar and feathering. My colleagues seem to want to ignore the foreign disinformation campaigns intended to interfere in our democracy and calls for murder of FBI director Ray and Dr. Fauci. What we’ve seen here are fighting words and hate speech that certainly deserve no free expression protection.

Senator Blumenthal: (16:24)
The fact is that the purpose of today’s hearing seems as much to bully or brow beat you Mr. Zuckerberg and Mr. Dorsey from taking the more responsible action by threatening cuts to Section 230. Censorship is really a misnomer for this hearing. What you’ve done is to label and to fact check to avoid amplifying misinformation and to in effect impose those labels to alert people that what they are consuming may misinform them. And Facebook took down ads for Biden in Michigan and the ACLU in Colorado for mistaken information about voting. In short, there was action that affected both sides. I have fought for Section 230 reform for 16 years. From my time as Connecticut’s attorney general, when I took on the scourge of registered sex offenders grooming children on Facebook and MySpace. With Senator Portman, I have led passage of the only successful revision so far to Section 230 to Stop Enabling Sex Traffickers Act known as SESTA.

Senator Blumenthal: (17:52)
And chairman Graham and I have authored the only bill to reform Section 230 that has actually moved out of the committee. The EARN IT Act passed this committee unanimously. Change is going to come, no question. Change is on the way and I intend to bring aggressive and targeted reform to Section 230. But I am not, nor should we be on this committee interested in being a member of the speech police. There are real harms and real victims here. And in some ways, this hearing is a betrayal of those real harms and the real victims of them. Those harms have been caused by big tech because you have failed your responsibility as have others in this industry. I want to see real reform that will enable these abuses to be reformed because your platforms have embraced abuse and weaponized child predators, violent white supremacists and human traffickers.

Senator Blumenthal: (19:07)
And I’ve heard heart wrenching stories from victims. You’ve set back civil rights protections for Muslim Americans who live in fear of armed militias organized by private online groups. You have setback consumers and competition making that kind of antitrust action very, very important. The American public deserves and demands real reform and accountability, national consumer privacy rules, antitrust principles that curb predatory power and reforms the Section 230 that stops shutting the courthouse door to victims. I look forward to an opportunity for real change, and I think you can meet this moment by put in your power and your money on the right side of history. Thanks Mr. Chairman.

Mr. Graham: (20:10)
Well, thank you. A lot to unpack there. Senator Blumenthal, it’s been great to work with. I’ll continue to work with you. If we keep control of the committee, Senator Grassley would be the chairman next year. And I would encourage him to have the hearings that Senator Blumenthal referenced. That this is a ongoing conversation to get it right to the extent that we can get it right. Mr. Dorsey from Twitter, are you with us, Mr. Dorsey?

Mr. Dorsey: (20:37)
I am. Can you hear me?

Mr. Graham: (20:40)
Thank you. The floor is yours.

Mr. Dorsey: (20:43)
Thank you to the members of the judiciary committee for the opportunity to speak with the American people about Twitter and your concerns around censorship and suppression of a specific news article and generally what we saw in the 2020 US elections conversation. We were called here today because of an enforcement decision we made against the New York Post based on a policy we created in 2018 to prevent Twitter from being used to spread hacked materials. This resulted in us blocking people from sharing a New York Post article publicly or privately. We made a quick interpretation using no other evidence that the materials in the article were obtained through hacking. And according to our policy, we blocked them from being spread. Upon further consideration, we admitted this action was wrong and corrected it within 24 hours. We informed the New York Post of our error and policy update and how to unlock their account by deleting the original violating tweet which freed them to tweet the exact same content and news article again.

Mr. Dorsey: (21:47)
They chose not to, instead insisting we reverse our enforcement action. We did not have a practice around retroactively overturning prior enforcements. This incident demonstrated that we needed one. And so we created one we believe is fair and appropriate. I hope this illustrates the rationale behind our actions and demonstrates our ability to take feedback, admit mistakes, and make changes all transparently to the public. We acknowledge there are still concerns around how do we moderate content and specifically our use of Section 230. Three weeks ago we proposed three solutions to address the concerns raised and they all focus on services that decide to moderate or remove content. It could be expansions to Section 230, new legislative frameworks or a commitment to industry-wide self-regulation best practices requiring; one, moderation process and practices to be published. Two, a straight forward process to appeal decisions and three, best efforts around algorithmic choice or suggestions to address the concerns we all have going forward.

Mr. Dorsey: (22:57)
And they’re all achievable in short order. It’s critical as we consider these solutions, we optimize for new startups and independent developers. Doing so ensures a level playing field that increases the probability of competing ideas to help solve problems going forward. We mustn’t entrench the largest companies any further. Finally, before I close, I wanted to share some reflections on what we saw during the US presidential election. We focused on addressing attempts to undermine civic integrity, providing informative context and product changes to encourage greater conversation.

Mr. Dorsey: (23:35)
We updated our civic integrity policy to address misleading or disputed information that undermines confidence in the election, causes voter intimidation or suppression or confusion about how to vote or misrepresents affiliation or election outcomes. More than a year ago, the public asked us to offer additional context to help make potentially misleading information more apparent. We did exactly that, applying labels to over 300,000 tweets from October 27th to November 11th, which represented about 2.2% of all US election related tweets. We also changed how our product works in order to help increase context and encourage more thoughtful consideration before tweets are shared broadly. We’re continuing to assess the impact of these product changes to inform our longterm roadmap. Thank you for the time and look forward to a productive discussion focused on solutions.

Mr. Graham: (24:34)
Thank you, Mr. Dorsey. Mr. Zuckerberg.

Mr. Zuckerberg: (24:38)
Thank you Chairman Graham, ranking member Blumenthal and members of the committee. At last year’s hearing, or last months hearing and I spoke about the role internet platforms play in supporting democracy, keeping people safe and upholding fundamental values like free expression. People have deeply held beliefs about these issues and can reach very different conclusions about the right balance. We try to do what’s best for our community and the world, acknowledging that there are difficult trade-offs. I believe that some of these trade-offs and decisions would be better made through a democratic process and I look forward to discussing that today. But first I want to update you on our efforts during the election. At Facebook, we took our responsibility to protect the integrity of this selection very seriously. In 2016, we began to face new kinds of threats and after years of preparation, we were ready to defend against them.

Mr. Zuckerberg: (25:31)
We built sophisticated systems to protect against election interference that combine artificial intelligence, significant human review and partnerships with the intelligence community, law enforcement and other tech platforms. We’ve taken down more than 100 networks of bad actors who were trying to coordinate and interfere globally. We established a network of independent fact checkers that covers more than 60 languages. We made political advertising more transparent on Facebook than anywhere else including TV, radio, and email. And we introduced new policies to combat voter suppression and misinformation. Still, the pandemic created new challenges, how to handle misinformation about COVID and voting by mail, how to prepare people for the reality that results would take time and how to handle if someone prematurely declared victory or refused to accept the results. So in September, we updated our policies again, to reflect these realities of voting in 2020, and make sure that we were taking precautions given these unique circumstances.

Mr. Zuckerberg: (26:33)
We worked with the local election officials to remove false claims about polling conditions that might lead to voter suppression. We partnered with Reuters and the National Election Pool to provide reliable information about results. We attached voting information to posts by candidates on both sides and additional contexts to posts trying to de-legitimized the outcome. We locked down new political ads in the week before the election to prevent misleading claims from spreading when they couldn’t be rebutted. We strengthened our enforcement against malicious and conspiracy networks like QAnon to prevent them from using our platforms to organize violence or civil unrest. Altogether, I believe this was the largest election integrity effort by any private company in recent times. This is what people expect of us. And I’m glad that from what we’ve seen so far, our systems performed well. But election interference remains an ongoing threat that will never fully be solved so we continue to improve with each election.

Mr. Zuckerberg: (27:32)
But our integrity work is really only half the story. We also ran an unprecedented civic engagement program to encourage people to take part in our democracy. We ran the largest voter information campaign in history. 140 million people visited our voting information center, including more than 33 million on election day alone. We estimate that we helped more than 4.5 million people register to vote and helped States recruit 100,000 poll workers. This was done in a transparent and nonpartisan way as part of our ongoing commitment to supporting the civic process. And on top of these efforts by Facebook, my wife Priscilla and I personally donated $400 million to support election officials around the country and making sure that they had the infrastructure they needed to enable everyone to vote safely during this pandemic. In my last testimony, I said that people would judge us by our performance during this election.

Mr. Zuckerberg: (28:32)
Now, I believe that the full story is not only how we handle bad behavior on our platforms, but also how we encourage civic engagement more broadly. I’m proud of the work we’ve done to support our democracy and I look forward to discussing this. I also welcome the opportunity to discuss internet regulation. I believe we are well overdue to update the rules for the internet around content, elections, privacy, and data portability. There are important questions here, including who should be responsible for what people say online. For any system to work, I believe there needs to be a transparent process that people feel they can trust. And this will be difficult, especially since our country is so divided, but I believe it’s the only way to address these issues for the longterm. The challenges that we face are deeper than any one platform. They’re about how we want to balance basic social equities that we all care about like free expression, public safety and privacy. This is why I believe we would benefit from clearer guidance from elected officials and I look forward to discussing this today.

Mr. Graham: (29:37)
Well, thank you both. We’ll have one round and seven minutes. But I’ll, as always, try to be a little bit liberal with the time, because this is a very important topic. So let’s just get right into it. Mr. Dorsey, you can go first and Mr. Zuckerberg. When you heard Senator Blumenthal’s opening statement and mine, what did you get from it?

Mr. Dorsey: (30:04)
Well, I think you pointed out that we are facing something that feels impossible. We are required to help increase the health of the public conversation while at the same time, ensuring that as many people as possible can participate. And in order to do so, we need to make policies so that people feel safe and they feel free to express themselves. To minimize threats of abuse, of harassment, of misleading information, of organized campaigns to artificially amplify or influence a particular conversation. And that policy creation, that enforcement is challenging, but also it is more or less opaque to the public. And that’s where I think we have a gap. We have transparency around our policies.

Mr. Dorsey: (31:01)
We do not have transparency around how we operate content moderation, the rationale behind it, the reasoning. And as we look forward, we have more and more of our decisions, of our operations, moving to algorithms, which have a difficult time explaining why they make decisions, bringing transparency around those decisions. And that is why we believe that we should have more choice in how these algorithms are applied to our content, whether we use them at all so we can turn them on or off and have clarity around the outcomes that they are projecting and how they affect our experience.

Mr. Graham: (31:46)
Thank you. Mr. Zuckerberg, very quickly please. What did you hear?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (31:52)
Senator, I heard that there are issues around content moderation, as well as other areas. And frankly, I’m optimistic from the statements that we may be able to move forward and hopefully update some of the rules for the internet around these areas. I’ve been encouraging and hoping that we would do this for a couple of years. And from your opening statements, it sounds like there may be now enough common ground on views that real progress can be made here.

Mr. Graham: (32:23)
So from my point of view, the question for us is when it comes time to flag content as being reliable or not reliable, do either one of you believe that the government should do that? Is that a solution where the government sets a regulatory scheme that talks about what should be up and what should be down?

Mr. Dorsey: (32:47)
I don’t believe so. I think that would be very challenging.

Mr. Graham: (32:51)
Okay. Do you agree with that Mr. Zuckerberg?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (32:54)
Senator, for certain types of illegal content, I think it may be appropriate for there to be clear rules around that. But I would side of clear harms, including things like child exploitation and areas like that. Terrorism, I would agree with your sentiment that, that’s not something that government should be deciding on a piece of content by piece of content basis.

Mr. Graham: (33:22)
So if we take the government out of the picture, at least, and not in criminal areas, should we leave it up to the industry to come up with best business practices in terms of how to moderate content?

Mr. Dorsey: (33:39)
I think we need to align around the problem that we’re trying to solve. And there are many solutions to solving those problems, but I think we also have to focus our efforts on what is going to have the greatest impact. And we believe that the greatest impact is going to be found in how we deal with algorithms, how we use those algorithms, because they are responsible for showing us what we see or what we don’t see and there needs to be more choice in their use.

Mr. Graham: (34:08)
Do you agree with that, Mr. Zuckerberg?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (34:15)
Senator, I think that there is a role for regulation in the process, even if not defining on a piece of content by piece of content basis. And one of the areas that I’ve advocated for is regulation around transparency. That goes beyond just about what the policies are and what the process is, but also goes towards the results. As an example of this, every quarter, Facebook releases a Community Standards Enforcement Report. It’s basically a transparency report that breaks down each category of potentially harmful content that we track, ranging from terrorism to child exploitation content to incitement of violence-

Mr. Zuckerberg: (35:03)
… To child exploitation content, to incitement of violence, to pornography [crosstalk 00:35:05] violations.

Mr. Graham: (35:07)
Yes. If I may, I don’t mean to interrupt, but who sets those community standards? How are they set by the company?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (35:14)
Senator, we have a policy team that consults with a number of different stakeholders and outside groups to make sure that we’re getting feedback from broad swaths of [crosstalk 00:00:26].

Mr. Graham: (35:26)
Is that publicly known?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (35:30)
Senator, I believe so. Our head of content policy has testified publicly multiple times.

Mr. Graham: (35:38)
Okay. So when it comes to fact checking, would you give us a list of the people you use to fact check?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (35:46)
Senator, yes. We work with a number of independent organizations that are accredited by the Poynter Institute and they include Reuters, The Associated Press, Agence-France Presse [inaudible 00:36:00] United States, USA Today, factcheck.org, Science Feedback, PolitiFact, Check Your Fact, lead stories and the dispatch in the United States.

Mr. Graham: (36:11)
Okay. I think it’s important for the public to know who sets community standards, how they’re set, who does the fact checking, who you rely upon to do that. I think that would go a long way to people having a better understanding of the decisions you make. Mr. Zuckerberg, do you believe your product can be addictive?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (36:36)
Senator, we certainly do not design the product in that way. We designed the product to be as useful and meaningful as possible. We take steps…

Mr. Graham: (36:45)
That’s not my question. My question is that there seems to be an ample body of growing medical evidence that social media sites have an addictive nature to them. Do you agree with that?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (36:58)
Senator, I don’t think the research has been conclusive, but it is an area that we care about and study. We certainly do not want our products to be addictive. We want people to use them because they’re meaningful and we take steps to make sure that this is the case. So for example, we don’t give the team that’s running newsfeed a goal around how much time people spend on our products, which goes counter to a lot of the memes and misinformation out there around how we operate. But my goal is to help people connect and find content and interactions that are going to be meaningful to them on our service. Our view is that if that’s what we deliver over the longterm and people find the services useful, then they’ll use them more. But I don’t think that companies should be optimizing to just encourage people to spend as much time as possible on them.

Mr. Graham: (37:50)
Well, time’s about up. Have you seen the movie Social Dilemma?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (37:56)
Senator, I’m familiar with it.

Mr. Graham: (37:57)
Okay. Have you seen it, Mr. Dorsey?

Mr. Dorsey: (38:05)
No, I have not.

Mr. Graham: (38:06)
I would encourage both of you to see it. So here’s what I think we’re going to do on the committee over time. My hope is to ask the question more directly, are these social media sites addictive? Do they have a public health component that needs to be addressed? For years we thought tobacco was a great thing. We found out tobacco was not such a great thing. The medical science around these websites are becoming very concerning to me, particularly among children and that you can manipulate how many times you watch and you can set these media sites up so that people will constantly interact. So to both of you, I appreciate coming for the committee. We’ve got a long way to go. I don’t think the government needs to regulate what we think or what we say, but we’ve got to up our game here. I’ll end with this last question. Do both of you support change to 230, reform of Section 230?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (39:10)
Senator, I do.

Mr. Graham: (39:12)
Mr. Dorsey?

Mr. Dorsey: (39:14)
Yes.

Mr. Graham: (39:14)
Thank you. Senator Blumenthal.

Senator Blumenthal: (39:19)
Thanks Mr. Chairman. Let me bring this down to very practical terms. We’re in the middle of another election. This election in Georgia could determine, in fact, which party controls the United States Senate. I’m concerned that both of your companies are in fact backsliding or retrenching, that you are failing to take action against dangerous disinformation, exactly the same kind of voter suppression tactics that existed in the last election and that you are, in fact, reducing content modification. Fighting words and hate speech in the last election could inflame violence and send poll workers into hiding, discourage people from coming to the polls. We have to expect the same kinds of malign tactics. In fact, they are already visible. I’m going to ask, Mr. Chairman, that these posts and tweets be entered into the record, if there’s no objection, that are aimed at de-legitimizing the election in January. My question to you is will you commit to the same kind of robust content modification playbook in this coming election, including fact-checking, labeling, reducing the spread of misinformation, and other steps, even for politicians in the runoff elections ahead?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (41:10)
Senator, our policy is to have a similar approach in the upcoming Georgia special elections that we took during the general election.

Senator Blumenthal: (41:21)
Mr. Dorsey?

Mr. Dorsey: (41:23)
Yes, we do. We intend to learn from all of our experience with this election and bring all that learning going forward to make it more robust.

Senator Blumenthal: (41:32)
During the past election, there was rampant disinformation on social media in Spanish speaking sites, repeating Q Anon conspiracies and false claims of election rigging. In my view, you need to do better. Will you commit to taking steps to improve content modification for Spanish speaking communities before the Georgia runoff?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (42:07)
Senator, this is something that we are already working on and worked on ahead of the general election. We have multiple fact-checkers who focus on Spanish as a language. We made sure that we translated our voter information center into Spanish, which we showed at the top of Facebook and Instagram to everyone who uses those products in Spanish and in the US. Those are a couple of the steps that we’ve taken. We’re certainly committed to focusing on this.

Mr. Dorsey: (42:40)
Yes, we will in partnership with [inaudible 00:42:44] civil rights groups.

Senator Blumenthal: (42:46)
I’d like to know, and perhaps you could submit to me within one week, what additional steps you’re going to take because this Georgia runoff is underway. As I’ve indicated, I’ve seen a backsliding and retrenchment that is very deeply troubling that has enabled the spread of this disinformation, the restarting of certain algorithms, for example, that promote or amplify misinformation is very, very troubling. I think I want to know within a week, what additional steps we are taking to enhance the efforts to stop this kind of amplification and spread. Let me ask about Facebook community standards, which ban language that quote incites or facilitates serious violence. As you know, on November 5th, Steve Bannon, in a Facebook live video called for beheadings of Dr. Fauci and FBI Director Wray for not acting more favorably toward President Trump. Twitter banned Bannon for these remarks. You removed the video, Mr. Zuckerberg. But on Thursday, you reportedly told Facebook employees that Bannon had not violated enough policies that he should be banned from Facebook. My question to you is how many times is Steve Bannon allowed the call for the murder of government officials before Facebook suspends his account?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (44:31)
Senator, as you say, the content in question did violate our policies and we took it down. Having a content violation does not automatically mean your account gets taken down, and the number of strikes varies depending on the type of offense. So if people are posting terrorist content or child exploitation content, then the first time that they do it, then we will take down their account. For other things, it’s multiple. I’d be happy to follow up afterwards. We try not to disclose these…

Senator Blumenthal: (45:05)
[crosstalk 00:45:05] his account.

Mr. Zuckerberg: (45:06)
Sorry, I didn’t hear that.

Senator Blumenthal: (45:08)
Will you commit to taking down that account, Steve Bannon’s account?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (45:13)
Senator, no. That’s not what our policies would suggest that we should do in this case.

Senator Blumenthal: (45:22)
According to the internal records that are on record now, leaked by NBC news, Facebook has removed fact checks and forgiven infractions for conservative pages and pundits such as Breitbart, Donald Trump, Jr., Eric Trump and gateway pundit based on a fear of accusations of bias. Has Facebook avoided penalizing or fact-checking conservative pages that had violated its policies based on concerns of political bias and allegations of bias?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (46:03)
Senator, no. We haven’t done that. I think that those reports mischaracterize the actions that we take. I’m not aware of any instance where we have overturned a fact check specifically, and certainly no action like that would be taken for the reasons that you’re saying. What we do sometimes is apply some judgment on whether the repeat offender policies would render too harsh of a penalty, but that’s different from overturning a specific fact check and is not done for the reasons that you said.

Senator Blumenthal: (46:47)
Well, I’m very concerned that, in fact, Facebook seems to have a record of making accommodations and caving to conservative pressure. The president has tried to use an executive order on Section 230 to, again, bully or brow beat, and exert pressure on you and others in this industry. They’re in effect working the refs and they’re winning. Let me ask you about antitrust issues. In 2013 Facebook bought Onavo, which is a virtual private records network that claim to protect users’ privacy. In fact, Onavo’s access to private information about its users provided Facebook with unparalleled ability to track potential competition. I want to know whether Facebook used data from Onavo when it decided to purchase WhatsApp in 2014.

Mr. Zuckerberg: (47:58)
Senator, I believe that data from Onavo was one of the sources that the team looked at, but I don’t think it would have taken using Onavo to understand that WhatsApp was a great product. I don’t think that was determinative in my decision to pursue that.

Senator Blumenthal: (48:18)
Well, in fact, the House Antitrust Report says, “Onavo data was used to determine whether WhatsApp was quote, killing Facebook messenger, end quote.” My time has almost expired, but let me just say finally, that antitrust action by the federal trade commission is long overdue. I believe that decisive action is necessary, including very likely breaking up Facebook as a remedy. All options ought to be on the table, including divestment of Instagram and WhatsApp. The FTC ought to impose strict conditions on how Facebook uses consumer data and competes with rivals because the abuse of competition must end. Mr. Chairman, I ask that three letters from civil rights groups regarding disinformation, hate speech on Twitter, Facebook, and YouTube, and also a letter from Coalition of Children’s Protection Advocates on the EARN IT Act and child sexual abuse material on digital platform be entered into the record. Thank you both for being here today.

Mr. Graham: (49:35)
Without objection. Senator Cornyn.

Senator Cornyn: (49:39)
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I’m glad to hear both of our witnesses today say that Section 230, that they are open to reform, because think it’s fair to say the internet has outgrown Section 230 and while we’ve made some modifications when it comes to terrorism and when it comes to child exploitation, I think there’s more to do, but I think the question is going to be how this regulation is going to come to pass. I know there’s some, including on this committee, who suggested maybe we ought to create a private right of action so that individuals can sue over claims of violated rights on your platforms. I think that’s one form of regulation. It’s called regulation by litigation, but it’s certainly not my first choice and it’s not optimal. I don’t think it’s something we ought to be embracing in the first instance. But I do think it’s critical that each of you and your counterparts work with us to try to come up with something that will address the concerns. The basic concern I have is it’s hard to know exactly how to classify your business model.

Senator Cornyn: (51:05)
We have a provision in the Bill of Rights protecting freedom of the press, but yet, while we would never let the government regulate what the press writes or doesn’t write, essentially we are allowing private companies, which are now de facto public forums, to regulate that speech. I’m no more comfortable delegating those decisions to you than I am delegating to you my vote in the last or upcoming elections. Louis Brandeis famously said that the solution for bad speech is not less speech, it’s more speech. It seems to me like the practices that you are engaging in to tag, remove, and otherwise censor speech on your platforms violates that principle. I’d like to know why that shouldn’t be a better approach by allowing more speech rather than censoring what is perceived as bad speech. Then as I think I’ve discussed with you, Mr. Zuckerberg, I think we’re all sort of struggling to come up with what the appropriate analogy here is to your business model. We know, as newspapers have become less profitable and many of them gone out of business, there’s been consolidation in the news media.

Senator Cornyn: (52:33)
There is a proliferation of cable TV shows and people being able to get information through a variety of sources, but there’s no Walter Cronkite or the big TV networks with the trusted anchor person who people have confidence in that they will shoot with them straight. So I know it’s a very difficult thing to manage, but I would just encourage both of you not to wait for the lawsuits. We saw what happened to Microsoft. I think Bill Gates said that was one of his biggest mistakes failing to engage with some of the antitrust concerns when it came to Microsoft. He learned that the hard way. I think there is a better way for the American people, and that’s, if we work on this together. Mr. Zuckerberg, I believe that that Facebook publishes, on a quarterly basis, a report of its actions in this area. Is that correct?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (53:39)
Senator, that’s correct.

Senator Cornyn: (53:41)
And could you describe that for us and what motivated you to undertake that sort of transparency?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (53:48)
Yes. Senator, I believe that in order for people to trust that we’re doing a good job, they have to be able to see the results. We have to be able to break down content in a kind of category by category basis, across all of the different categories of harm, whether it’s terrorist content or child exploitation or incitement of violence or pornography or intellectual property violations, how much of the violating content is on our platforms and how effective our systems are at removing it and what we hold ourselves accountable towards is getting as high a percent of this harmful content down and addressing it before real people have to experience it and report it to us themselves. So in categories where we do quite well, for example, in fighting against terrorist content, our AI systems and counter-terrorism teams are able to remove 98 or 99% of that harmful content before anyone has to report it to us.

Mr. Zuckerberg: (54:53)
In other categories, it’s more challenging and we’re still making more progress. But I think that as part of a regulatory framework here, it would be good if every company had to issue a transparency report outlining what they’re seeing on their platforms and the results in effectiveness of their content moderation systems so that way the people who are responsible for holding all of us accountable, whether it’s journalists, Congress, academics could have an apples to apples comparison about how all the different companies are doing and potentially is part of a law require that companies even maintain a certain level of effectiveness.

Senator Cornyn: (55:37)
Thank you. Mr. Dorsey, when Twitter decided to take down the story, the New York Post story on Hunter Biden’s laptop, did you do that under your terms of service or did you do it under some other claim of authority?

Mr. Dorsey: (55:55)
We did an under our terms of service, which as you know, everyone agrees to when they sign up for Twitter. This was a policy around distribution of hacked materials. We did not want Twitter to be a distribution point for hacked materials.

Senator Cornyn: (56:09)
Well, you do realize that by taking down that story, you probably gave it more prominence and more visibility than it ever would have gotten had you left it alone.

Mr. Dorsey: (56:21)
We realize that and we recognize it as a mistake that we made both in terms of the intention of the policy and also the enforcement action of not allowing people to share it publicly or privately, which is why we corrected it within 24 hours.

Senator Cornyn: (56:41)
And Mr. Dorsey, why isn’t Justice Brandeis’ formulation in Whitney versus California. Why shouldn’t that apply to the internet platforms like yours? In other words, the cure for bad speech is not censorship, it’s more speech. Why wouldn’t that principle apply to Twitter?

Mr. Dorsey: (57:10)
I think it does apply. All of our policies are focused on encouraging more speech. What we saw and what the market told us was that people would not put up with abuse, harassment, and misleading information that would cause offline harm, and they would leave our service because of it. So our intention is to create clear policy, clear enforcement that enables people to feel that they can express themselves on our service and ultimately trust it.

Senator Cornyn: (57:39)
So it was a business decision.

Mr. Dorsey: (57:42)
It was a business decision.

Senator Cornyn: (57:43)
Thank you.

Mr. Graham: (57:46)
Senator Feinstein.

Senator Feinstein: (57:52)
Thanks very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Dorsey, in recent hearings before the Senate Commerce Committee, you said, “I think that Twitter has a policy against misinformation relating to civic integrity.” President Trump and his allies have tweeted hundreds of false claims about the 2020 election. Trump has falsely claimed victory and alleged widespread voter fraud. So here’s the question. Does misinformation about the results of an election and voter fraud relate to civic integrity? Why or why not?

Mr. Dorsey: (58:35)
Yes, it does. We label those tweets when the election has not been called yet, or multiple sources have called it differently.

Senator Feinstein: (58:46)
I’m sorry. I didn’t understand that. Did you say you have been able to tweet?

Mr. Dorsey: (58:52)
No. We have labeled the tweets that would indicate a different result in the election called by multiple sources.

Senator Feinstein: (59:01)
I see. At what point was that done?

Mr. Dorsey: (59:05)
Throughout the period, October 11th to up until today.

Senator Feinstein: (59:10)
So when the tweet initially came in, how long was it before you quote updated it?

Mr. Dorsey: (59:20)
We didn’t update it. We put a label on it, pointing to the broader conversation. Our goal is to connect people with more information around what’s happening with the election. That occurred anywhere from five minutes to 30 minutes, but as quickly as we can.

Senator Feinstein: (59:42)
Thank you, is 30 minutes the maximum time?

Mr. Dorsey: (59:46)
I don’t know. We can get you that information [crosstalk 00:59:48].

Senator Feinstein: (59:48)
Would you? I’m interested in this. Does misinformation about the results of an election and voter fraud relate to civic integrity? Why or why not?

Mr. Dorsey: (01:00:04)
Yes, it does. We also label those tweets that would indicate whether fraud was happening. Again, we connect those to larger conversations on platform. So we want to provide context here. That is our goal, providing more context, providing more information.

Senator Feinstein: (01:00:23)
Okay. Now a specific question, and I’m not sure actually what the answer to this should be, but on November 7, president Trump tweeted and I quote, “I won this election by a lot.” Obviously, that’s not true. President Trump lost the election. The warning label that Twitter is applied to the tweet says, and I quote, “Official sources may not have called the race when this was tweeted.” Do you believe that label goes far enough to prevent the tweet’s harms when the tweet is still visible and not accurate?

Mr. Dorsey: (01:01:03)
I do because it’s not just the surface level label. It points to a collection of news articles of information and conversation that gives you an expansion on what’s happening with the election.

Senator Feinstein: (01:01:17)
I guess you see my concerns are that these tweets arouse people. It seems to me that the entity that runs this operation ought to have an understanding that when there is a major situation, that the tweets can play a unique role in either reassuring or stirring people up to unacceptable levels. Could you comment on that?

Mr. Dorsey: (01:01:51)
Well, I agree in [inaudible 00:26:54]. I know our policy is focused on misleading information around the election and the civic process to provide greater context, to provide additive information so that people can make decisions around what’s happening with the election. That is three phases. That’s the run-up to the election, that’s Election Day, and also the phase we’re in right now. Post-election. So our policies and enforcement are focused on providing more information and more context to people in those three phases.

Senator Feinstein: (01:02:27)
Well, let me give you a specific. On November 7, President Trump tweeted this, “I won this election by a lot.” That’s obviously not true. President Trump lost the election. The warning label that Twitter has applied to the tweet says, and I quote, “Official sources may not have called the race when this was tweeted.” Now, here’s the question. Does that label do enough to prevent the tweet’s harms when the tweet is still visible and is not accurate?

Mr. Dorsey: (01:03:04)
I believe it’s really important that we show people a broader context, and that is the intention of the label. It is not just text below a tweet. It is a link to connect to a much larger conversation and news articles across the spectrum.

Senator Feinstein: (01:03:22)
Well, give me an example of what would have to happen before the situation would warrant a stronger response?

Mr. Dorsey: (01:03:33)
Well, we did have stronger responses during Election Day and the week after where we did put an interstitial, meaning that you had to click through to see the content of the tweet and it limited spread for anything that went against our civic integrity policy, including premature calls to election results.

Senator Feinstein: (01:03:58)
Well, let me give you one more. On November 12, President Trump tweeted a conspiracy theory that 2.7 million votes for him were deleted. The warning label that Twitter has applied to that tweet said, “This claim about election fraud is disputed.” Now here’s the question. I think it is a tough issue. Do you believe this label does enough to prevent the tweet’s harms when the tweet is still visible? It’s a highly emotional situation, but the tweet has no factual basis.

Mr. Dorsey: (01:04:37)
But the tweet has a link to more information, to more conversation and more context that informs the situation what’s happening. So I do believe that connecting people to the larger conversation, giving them more context is the right path here.

Senator Feinstein: (01:04:57)
But they have to move to solicit that contact, right? It’s not contained as an addendum to the original tweet.

Mr. Dorsey: (01:05:06)
The label is an addendum to the original tweet. If you tap on it or click it, you will go to an expansion of the information.

Senator Feinstein: (01:05:14)
I see. Can I ask a question to Mr. Zuckerberg? Is he…

Mr. Graham: (01:05:22)
Yes, you may. One more, if that would be okay.

Senator Feinstein: (01:05:26)
Mr. Zuckerberg, at the recent hearing before the Senate Commerce Committee, you said that Facebook has a “Policy in place that prevents any candidate,” from “trying to delegitimize the result of the election.” But the hashtags, stealthevote and voterfraud, garnered more than 300,000 interactions on your platform in the hours after Mr. Trump falsely declared victory. So here’s the question. Do you believe Facebook did enough to prevent Trump’s efforts to delegitimize the election result? If so, why have you reached that conclusion?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (01:06:21)
Senator, I believe that we’ve taken some very significant steps in this area, not just the adding additional context to specific posts and making it so that when people search for different hashtags, we show additional information, but we also took the unprecedented step of putting the voter information center at the top of Facebook and Instagram for everyone in the US that showed them reliable information about the election, including partnering with organizations like Reuters and the National Election Pool to show them accurate information about the results of the election. So all taken together, I think that we really went quite far in terms of helping to distribute reliable and accurate information about what was going on during this election.

Senator Feinstein: (01:07:15)
Okay. Let me give you one more along this line. After President Trump falsely claimed that the election was being stolen. A group called Stop The Steal was started on Facebook. It grew to more than 300,000 users in less than a day, making it one of the fastest growing groups, I understand, in Facebook history. You shut the group down, but substantial damage already had been done. Trump supporters, some of them armed with assault weapons, held Stop The Steal rallies outside election offices. In Philadelphia, two armed supporters who had traveled from Virginia were arrested on their way to the city’s vote counting center. Here’s the question, and this is a tough one. What are your concerns about the spread of misinformation? No matter how innocent it is, or it is not innocent, like Trump’s claims about the election that they may incite violence.

Mr. Zuckerberg: (01:08:23)
Senator, I’m very worried about this, especially any misinformation or content that could incite violence. In during such a volatile period like this, one of our top priorities is making sure that people don’t use our platform to organize any violence or civil unrest. That was the basis under which we took down that group, because there were a number of members who were posting potentially violent or encouraging violent comments that violated our policies. We also have broader policies in place around trying to slow the spread of misinformation more broadly, even when it’s not going to lead to some kind of violence or imminent harm. That’s why we’ve created this independent fact-checking program where we work with more than 80 partners around the world to help do fact checking because people in our community have told us they don’t want to see misinformation, but they also don’t want us to be deciding what is true and false. So we’ve taken the step of building this program, which I believe is more sophisticated than what anyone else in our industry has. So I’m very focused on these issues.

Senator Feinstein: (01:09:44)
Well, I’m happy to hear that because I’m really struck by it that people armed with assault weapons as a product of a tweet could rally outside an election office. I think it’s really a serious issue that needs to be…

Senator Feinstein: (01:10:03)
It’s really a serious issue that needs to be considered and there need to be, once you signal that and people respond to it, it has to be, in some way, abated or some way pointed out or restructured on the internet itself. Now, can you respond to that-

Speaker 1: (01:10:27)
Senator Feinstein, I hate to… We’re almost doubled the time. Could we-

Senator Feinstein: (01:10:32)
I’m sorry.

Speaker 1: (01:10:33)
That’s all right. We’re going to have a vote come up I and apologize. Senator Lee.

Mr. Lee: (01:10:38)
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I’d like to note that as far as the president’s arguments about the election and how they turned out, inciting violence, I’d like to point out here that the only violence that I’m aware of has occurred in connection with Antifa, Antifa’s response to pro-Trump peaceful rally attenders. So I don’t quite understand that. Maybe we will have a chance to dwell on that more in a minute, but first I want to talk a little bit about federal law, existing federal law, and what it requires. Section five of the federal trade commission act prohibits businesses from engaging in unfair or deceptive trade practices. Compliance with this particular law requires that there be some consistency between what a company represents as their practices and their products and what they actually are. In other words, you can’t sell one thing and provide another under the guise of providing something different than what’s being sold. Both Twitter and Facebook represent and have represented for years to their users, their customers, that they take a neutral approach to election content moderation. However, as we’ve heard today and as we will continue to hear today and into the foreseeable future, there are instances in which your platforms are taking a very distinctively partisan approach and not a neutral one to election related content moderation. For example, just days before the election, Twitter suspended the account of Mark Morgan. Now Mark Morgan is the commissioner of the US Customs and Border Protection Office, and they suspended Commissioner Morgan’s Twitter account specifically for a tweet celebrating the access of the US southern border wall.

Mr. Lee: (01:12:42)
Apparently, Commissioner Morgan’s tweet, his comments about the border wall, violated Twitter platform rules governing what it calls atrial conduct. Now I’ve read the offending post and the offending post from Commissioner Mark Morgan reads as follows. @ CVP and the Army Corps of engineers, “continue to build a new wall every day. Every mile helps us stop gang members, murderers, sexual predators, and drugs from entering our country. It’s a fact walls work.” Mr. Dorsey, can you tell me in one sentence, what exactly is hateful about Commissioner Morgan’s tweet that I just read?

Mr. Dorsey: (01:13:29)
Well, we evaluated this treat again and we found that we were wrong. There was a mistake and it was due to the fact that we had heightened awareness around government accounts during this time. So that was a mistake. We reverted it.

Mr. Lee: (01:13:44)
Thank you. I appreciate that, and we’re going to get back to more of that in a minute and get back to the fact that I understand that mistakes happen, but what we’re going to see today is that mistakes happen a whole lot more, almost entirely on one side of the political aisle rather than the other. Now, Commissioner Morgan’s statement in that tweet, as was initially taken down, is factual. There’s nothing remotely hateful about it, and yet it was taken down. Now on October 15th, Facebook relied on a third party fact checker’s assessment to ban two advertisements from Facebook for “partly false information.” Now, both of these advertisements were factual in nature. They revealed Joe Biden’s and Kamala Harris’ views on late term abortion.

Mr. Lee: (01:14:37)
Joe Biden has stated that he won’t accept any restrictions on abortion and Senator Harris’ views are such that she voted against requiring care for a child born alive during a botched abortion. The very next day, the third party fact checker issued a statement retracting the assessment and retracting it as erroneous. However, it stunningly took Facebook almost two more weeks, until October 29th when voting had already started in many jurisdictions to lift the ban on these legitimate ads, ads that the fact checker had already declared a couple of weeks earlier were erroneously taken down. So Mr. Zuckerberg, why on earth did it take Facebook two weeks to correct this error?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (01:15:37)
Senator, I’m not familiar with the details of us re-enabling that ad so I can follow up with you after. It’s possible that this was just a mistake or delay and unfortunately, when we handle millions or billions of pieces of content today, while we strive to do as well as possible and be as precise as possible, we will make some mistakes.

Mr. Lee: (01:16:06)
Thank you. I appreciate your acknowledgement of the fact that there are mistakes. As I’ve noted previously, those mistakes sure happen a whole lot more on one side of the political spectrum than the other. Now this is understandable. We’re humans, but it’s also understandable why this might occur. Maybe some of it has to do with your employees. 92.83% of Facebook employees who donated to federal candidates, they give to Democrats. At Twitter, it’s even more stark than that, as if it could get much more stark, but 99.3% of Twitter employees who have donated to federal candidates gave to Democrats, and so these mistakes, they may be mistakes, but they’re mistakes that rhyme.

Mr. Lee: (01:16:45)
They may not repeat themselves, but they rhyme and the consistent theme happens to be Republicans, conservatives, and the pro-life activists. Now I’d like to ask both of you, is there a list of every user or every content creator who has been de-platformed or had their contents reach altered or have had some other adverse action taken by either Facebook or Twitter altered? Is there some list that identifies each user for which that has happened? Mr. Zuckerberg, let’s hear from you, just a yes or no question. Does such a list exist?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (01:17:30)
Senator, I’m not aware of anything like that existing.

Mr. Lee: (01:17:35)
Mr. Dorsey, how about you?

Mr. Dorsey: (01:17:38)
I’m not exactly sure what you’re asking, but we certainly-

Mr. Lee: (01:17:43)
Simple question, do you have a list of people, your users or content creators who have had some adverse action taken against them, either being de-platformed or having their reach altered or something because of the content of their posts?

Mr. Dorsey: (01:17:56)
Well, certainly whenever we take an action, it’s recorded somewhere in the database, but I’m not sure if that’s your intent.

Mr. Lee: (01:18:02)
No, that’s helpful. So what I’m hearing from both of you is that while there may not be an actual list, and I’d like you both to check to see if such a list exists, but even if there isn’t, there is a defacto list because you have within your databases, records of occasions when this has occurred, and so I’d like to ask both of you, if such a list exists, please send it to me. I’d like to see it. If such a list does not exist, you certainly do have the data necessary in order to generate some and I request as a member of this committee that you generate such a list and provide it to me. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.

Mr. Lee: (01:18:46)
Senator Graham, the chairman of the committee, has stepped out momentarily. I’ve been directed to recess the hearing momentarily so that we can go and vote, and then we will pick up back here in just a few minutes. I would like to, as long as I have the gavel momentarily, I’m going to ask one more question before I leave to go vote and then we’ll recess the hearing after this question.

Speaker 2: (01:19:13)
Could I ask when we’re coming back? I’ve been waiting to ask questions for an hour now.

Mr. Lee: (01:19:19)
We’ll be coming back as soon as Senator Graham returns. He left to vote just a moment ago. He’ll be back. Mr. Zuckerberg, in September, Facebook tagged an ad run by the American principles project in Michigan that criticized Joe Biden and criticized Senator Gary Peters, and the ad was tagged because it was “missing context.” Now the next day, the ad was shut down entirely by Facebook. Facebook relied on a supposed fact check from PolitiFact, which is a nice way for you to avoid taking accountability for the problem, except that the fact check in question literally said that the ad “makes predictions we can’t fact check.” Apparently, this had to do with lacking context, but when did lacking context become a new standard for political ads?

Mr. Lee: (01:20:23)
I mean, all political ads, all ads in general, but certainly all political ads, lack context. Ben Sasse just finished a resounding victory in Nebraska, and I haven’t seen his TV ads, but I’m sure they’re brilliant. This guy’s made for television, and with or without the beard, and I’m sure his ads didn’t say Ben Sasse, great Senator, but not that great of a hockey player or there’s always context that is lacking, left out in any advertisement. So what does that mean and have you applied the missing context label to any democratic ads, a single one that you can identify?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (01:21:09)
Senator, I’m not familiar with that specific standard, but as kind of a background on the fact checking program, the basis of this is that we have heard resoundingly from our community that people do not want to see misinformation and believe that it is a problem, but people also believe that they do not want Facebook to be the arbiter of truth and deciding everything that is true and false, and for what it’s worth, I strongly agree with that and I do not think it is the right thing for us to assume that role.

Mr. Zuckerberg: (01:21:40)
So within those bounds, we’ve tried to create a fact checking program that works with independent third-parties who have been accredited by the Poynter Institute for Journalism, which I think is widely respected, and we give those fact checkers the latitude to determine whether ads or other content on our service is accurate, and if not, we apply some demotions or we prevent them from being run as ads. I can follow up in more detail afterwards on the specifics of your questions since I’m not as familiar with them right now.

Mr. Lee: (01:22:21)
I would appreciate that very much if you’d be willing to do that because it’s not only inconsistent with logic and with what the standards that apply in every other advertising context that I’m familiar with. It’s also inconsistent with what Facebook itself does. Just to give you some context for that, while we’re talking about missing context, I recently posted something about the election on Facebook, and my Facebook post was almost immediately tagged with the following. “Election officials say that voter fraud, which is historically rare, has not affected the outcome in this election. They have confirmed that mail-in voting was conducted in accordance with state voting rules.”

Mr. Lee: (01:23:08)
Now I find this a little disturbing. Accounts tagged to me sounds a whole lot more like state run media announcing the party line rather than a neutral company as it purports to be running an open online forum is editorializing insulates people from the truth and it insinuates that anyone concerned about voter fraud must be crazy. It also states it as if it were an irrefutable neutral objective fact. Now maybe these kinds of concerns are out of the mainstream in Palo Alto, but they’re not out of the mainstream with the rest of America.

Mr. Lee: (01:23:53)
I have to reiterate, I hope this kind of manipulation wasn’t intentional, but it’s getting harder and harder for me to accept the premise that it could be anything but intentional, and if it was intentional, it’s yet more evidence that Facebook’s actions surrounding this election are incongruent with the promises that you’ve made to your own users and that’s a problem. Consistent with the directions of but given by Chairman Graham, we’re now going to recess. I predict we’ll be in recess for no more than 10 or 15 minutes until Chairman Graham returns. We stand in recess.

Mr. Lee: (01:24:31)
[inaudible 01:25:32].

Sen. John Kennedy: (01:24:31)
(Silence).

Sen. John Kennedy: (01:52:23)
The committee will come to order. Senator Leahy?

Sen Patrick Leahy: (01:52:27)
Thank you, can you hear me all right?

Sen. John Kennedy: (01:52:28)
Yes, sir.

Sen Patrick Leahy: (01:52:30)
Good.

Sen. John Kennedy: (01:52:31)
We can see you too, Senator. You look great.

Sen Patrick Leahy: (01:52:36)
Well let me start by saying… It’s my thick head of hair, that’s what does it. But I want to say I recognize the challenging position that social media companies are in where your platforms hosts much of the news that America, and actually the world, use to stay informed. So you’re on the frontline of both domestic and foreign disinformation campaigns and you have to balance American ideals like freedom of speech, you have to limit hate speech, you have to limit dangerous misinformation. That’s a significant challenge. I saw one of the people who came here to demonstrate last weekend in Washington say they’re there because they had found out that China had one minute before the polls closed dumped millions of votes for Joe Biden. Somebody said, “Well, what do you mean?” They said, “Well, it was on the internet, it’s got to be accurate.”

Sen Patrick Leahy: (01:53:42)
But now your platforms are taken some positive steps, but I mention that one thing and I hear from people all the time that stop me with some of these misinformation, sometimes very dangerous misinformation, they’ve gotten it from your platforms. And I happen to think you can and must do better, our security, I think even our democracy, our understanding of basic truth depends upon you doing a better job. President Obama described the escalating erosion of the acceptance of facts, of science, of clear evidence as, “Truth decay.” Without facts, it’s hard to imagine how a government by and for the people can exist and your platforms can bring people together. I think often they act as a form of driving people apart.

Sen Patrick Leahy: (01:54:46)
Now, during this election, President Trump has emerged as the most prominent distributor of false and misleading election information, he still does it, nothing short of propaganda. Without evidence, he routinely claims the election was rigged, says the States actually cheated and fixed the results, even claims that millions of Trump votes were deleted. And he’s doing that while his own Department of Homeland Security is staying the election was the most secure in American history and there’s no evidence any voting system deleted or lost, changed votes, or was in any way compromised, that’s what our own US Government is saying when the head of government, the President, is saying just the opposite. So it may make him feel better about the fact that he lost badly, but we shouldn’t have to put up with it.

Sen Patrick Leahy: (01:55:47)
So I have a question for both of you, has Facebook or Twitter conducted an in-depth postmortem review of election misinformation spread on your platforms? Not just what you’re label, but how far the misinformation reached? Have you done that kind of a post-mortem?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (01:56:11)
Senator, we will do that analysis and, also, we are commissioning and working with independent academics to enable them to do the studies themselves and to publish what they find without any intervention or permission required from Facebook.

Sen Patrick Leahy: (01:56:31)
Thank you, and?

Mr. Dorsey: (01:56:33)
And we are doing the same, including opening up our APIs to researchers to make sure that others are able to see what we may not see ourselves.

Sen Patrick Leahy: (01:56:42)
Will that be made available to us? Can other people see the results of that study you’re going to do, both of you I would ask?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (01:56:54)
Senator, yes, the academic research is going to be public and the academics are going to be able to publish this themselves without even having to get Facebook’s approval over what they publish.

Sen Patrick Leahy: (01:57:07)
Thank you. And Mr. Dorsey?

Mr. Dorsey: (01:57:10)
And we’ll make our reports and findings public as well, so everyone can learn.

Sen Patrick Leahy: (01:57:15)
I’ll look forward to reading them. I’m actually one member of the Senate who will actually read them, so thank you. Because you look at some of the things that went on, I know Senator Blumenthal and others have raised this question about Steve Bannon putting on a video, think of what it did. It called for the murder, the beheading of Dr. Fauci and the Director of the FBI, Christopher Ray. Just think what that does. I mean the FBI Director travels with security all the time, Dr. Fauci and his family are private citizens, they’re calling for their beheading. And it was seen by, I think, 200,000 people on Facebook. Well, if you are going to have somebody threatening to murder somebody, what do you do about that? I mean, how do you catch that in a hurry? Because I was a prosecutor, I prosecuted murderers and we didn’t have to face this kind of threat at that time. But what do you do when hundreds of thousands of people see a threat, “Go murder somebody.”?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (01:58:39)
Senator, in that case, that content violated our policies and we took it down. And as has been the subject of some of the other questions, if someone had multiple offenses like that, we would remove their whole account.

Sen Patrick Leahy: (01:58:52)
Well, I’m sure that’s the threat that they do multiple times say, “Go out and murder somebody, cut off their head,” we’re going to face a real problem. “Facebook will take down our posting? Oh my goodness, what a deterrent.”

Mr. Zuckerberg: (01:59:18)
So Senator, what we try to do is identify content that violates our policy before anyone in the community has to see it or even report it to us. And for some categories like terrorism, which I’ve cited before, about 98% or 99% of the content that we take down our AI and human systems find before anyone even has to report it to us. On hate speech, we’re up to 94% of the content that we take down our AI systems and content reviewers find it before people have to report it to us. What we try to drive on more effectiveness is basically finding more and more of that harmful content earlier, before it is seen broadly across our system.

Sen Patrick Leahy: (02:00:07)
Let me ask you about that because we’ve had these discussions before, I’m deeply concerned about Facebook’s role in spreading hate speech in Myanmar. Hate speech that helped fuel a genocide against the Muslim Rohingya people. And I mean, horrible, I’ve seen the pictures, I’ve seen some of the genocide. Now, you’ve made some progress about this since you and I had talked about it last, but my understanding is that Facebook shuts down specific accounts that violates your content related policy, but then that user could, of course, just create a new account. In Myanmar, for example, on October 8th, Facebook took down 38 inauthentic accounts created and controlled by members of the Myanmar military in part to promote anti-Rohingya content, and I compliment you for doing, but the Myanmar military just turned around and created new accounts that promote the same content. So in some way you’ve got a whack-a-mole problem here, but is there a way that you can stop these things, not just at the account level, but at the user level? And I use that as an example because people are being murdered in a systematic genocide.

Sen. Lindsay Graham: (02:01:44)
Please answer Senator Leahy’s question, then we’ll need to move. Go ahead.

Sen Patrick Leahy: (02:01:49)
And I’m sorry to take long, but the previous questioner took all his time plus all the time that had been allotted to me.

Sen. Lindsay Graham: (02:01:57)
No, I agree. No, we’re at two and a half minutes and let’s just wrap it up, but go ahead and answer the question.

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:02:03)
Senator you’re correctly pointing out that we did disable certain generals in the Myanmar military as dangerous figures and they are not allowed to sign up for new accounts. But as you point out, these kinds of integrity problems are not ones that there’s a silver bullet or where you can ever fully solve them. We will always be working to help minimize the prevalence of harm in the same way that a city you will never eliminate all crime, you try to reduce it and have it be as little as possible. And that’s what we try to do through a combination of building AI systems to identify harmful content upfront, hiring thousands of people, tens of thousands of people to do content review, and partnering with organizations, whether it’s in the intelligence community, law enforcement, election officials, or in Myanmar, local civil society to help us flag things that we should be aware of and on high alert about.

Sen Patrick Leahy: (02:03:12)
Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I’ll have some questions for the record for both of the witnesses.

Sen. Lindsay Graham: (02:03:19)
Thank you very much, Senator Leahy, I appreciate that. Senator Cruz?

Sen. Ted Cruz: (02:03:24)
Thank you Mr. Chairman. Facebook and Twitter and Google have massive power, they have a monopoly on public discourse in the online arena. I will say it’s dismaying listening to the questions from our democratic colleagues because consistently the message from Senate Democrats is for Facebook and Twitter and Google to censor more, to abuse their power more, to silence voices that Senate Democrats disagree with more. That is very dangerous if we want to maintain a free and fair democracy, if we want to maintain free speech. There was a time when Democrats embraced and defended the principles of free speech, there was a time when Democrats embraced and defended the principles of a free press, and yet there’s an absolute silence from Democrats speaking up for the press outlets censored by big tech, there’s an absolute silence for Democrats speaking out for the citizens silenced by big tech. Instead, there is a demand, “Use even more power to silence dissent,” and that’s a totalitarian instinct that I think is very dangerous.

Sen. Ted Cruz: (02:04:43)
At the same time that big tech exercises massive power, it also enjoys massive corporate welfare through the effect of Section 230, a special immunity from liability that nobody else gets. Congress has given big tech, in effect, a subsidy while they become some of the wealthiest corporations on the face of the planet. Mr. Dorsey, I want to focus primarily on Twitter and ask you initially, is Twitter a publisher?

Mr. Dorsey: (02:05:18)
Is Twitter a publisher?

Sen. Ted Cruz: (02:05:20)
Yes.

Mr. Dorsey: (02:05:20)
No, we are not, we distribute information.

Sen. Ted Cruz: (02:05:29)
So what is a publisher?

Mr. Dorsey: (02:05:29)
An entity that is publishing under editorial guidelines and decisions.

Sen. Ted Cruz: (02:05:35)
Well, your answer happens to be contrary to the text of federal statute, particular Section 230, which defines an information content provider as, “Any person or entity that is responsible, in whole or in part, for the creation or development of information provided through the internet or any other interactive computer service.” Let me ask you, was Twitter being a publisher when it censored the New York Post?

Mr. Dorsey: (02:06:05)
No. We have very clear policies on the conduct we enable on the platform and if there’s a violation, we take enforcement action. And people choose to commit to those policies and to those terms of service.

Sen. Ted Cruz: (02:06:23)
Except your policies are applied in a partisan and selective matter. You claim it was hacked materials and yet you didn’t block the distribution of the New York Times story that alleged to talk about President Trump’s tax returns, even though a federal statute makes it a crime to distribute someone’s tax returns without their consent. You didn’t block any of that discussion, did you?

Mr. Dorsey: (02:06:42)
Our policy was focused on distribution of the actual hack materials and the New York Times-

Sen. Ted Cruz: (02:06:47)
Did you block the discussion of the President’s tax return material?

Mr. Dorsey: (02:06:51)
And in the New York Times case, we interpreted as reporting about the hacked materials, not distribution of [inaudible 02:06:58].

Sen. Ted Cruz: (02:06:57)
Did you block Edward Snowden when he illegally released material?

Mr. Dorsey: (02:07:04)
I don’t have the answer to that.

Sen. Ted Cruz: (02:07:06)
The answer is no. You having used this in a selective matter, let me ask you were you being a publisher when you forced Politico, another journalistic outlet, to take down their tweets on a topic that you had deemed impermissible?

Mr. Dorsey: (02:07:23)
No. We were enforcing our policy and our terms of service.

Sen. Ted Cruz: (02:07:27)
So on October 15th, Jake Sherman, a reporter at Politico, tweeted the following, “I tweeted a link to the New York post story right after it dropped yesterday morning, I immediately reached out to the Biden campaign to see if they had any answer. I wish I’d given the story a closer read before tweeting it, Twitter suspended me.” So you actually have a reporter reporting on a story, asking the other side for comment. And Twitter says, “Hi Jake Sherman, your account @JakeSherman has been locked for violating Twitter rules.” Now, what did the Politico reporter do? Immediately tweets after that, “My goal was not to spread information.” Well, that’s a little worrisome just in and of itself, “My goal was to raise questions about the story.”

Sen. Ted Cruz: (02:08:08)
“Oh, my overlords in Silicon Valley, I was attacking the New York Post. You don’t understand, I was attacking them, as I did in subsequent tweets, and see how the Biden campaign was going to respond.” They later did respond and then, not long after, Jake Sherman comes back with, “My account is clearly no longer suspended, I deleted the tweet.” When Twitter is editing and censoring and silencing the New York Post, the newspaper with the fourth highest circulation in the country, and Politico, one of the leading newspapers in the country, is Twitter behaving as a publisher when it’s deciding what stories reporters are allowed to write and publish and what stories they’re not?

Mr. Dorsey: (02:08:51)
No. And that account is not suspended, it fell afoul of the hacked materials policy, we realized that there was an error in that policy and the enforcement and we corrected that within 24 hours.

Sen. Ted Cruz: (02:09:00)
Hold on, I’m literally looking at the tweet from Twitter that says, “Your account has been locked.” You’re you’re telling me that this is not an accurate…

Mr. Dorsey: (02:09:10)
That’s a lock and can be unlocked when you delete the offending tweet.

Sen. Ted Cruz: (02:09:13)
I understand that you have the star chamber power, your answer is always, “Well, once we silence you, we can choose to allow you to speak,” But you are engaged in publishing decisions. Let me shift to a different topic, Mr. Dorsey, does voter fraud exist?

Mr. Dorsey: (02:09:32)
I don’t know for certain.

Sen. Ted Cruz: (02:09:34)
Are you an expert in voter fraud?

Mr. Dorsey: (02:09:36)
No, I’m not.

Sen. Ted Cruz: (02:09:38)
Well, why then is Twitter right now putting purported warnings on virtually any statement about voter fraud?

Mr. Dorsey: (02:09:48)
We’re simply linking to a broader conversation so that people have more information.

Sen. Ted Cruz: (02:09:52)
No, you’re not. You put up a page that says, “Voter fraud of any kind is exceedingly rare in the United States.” That’s not linking to a broader conversation, that’s taking a disputed policy position. And you’re a publisher when you’re doing that, you’re entitled to take a policy position, but you don’t get to pretend you’re not a publisher and get a special benefit under section 230 as a result.

Mr. Dorsey: (02:10:14)
That link is pointing to a broader conversation with tweets from publishers and people all around the country.

Sen. Ted Cruz: (02:10:22)
Mr. Dorsey, would the following statement violate Twitter’s policies, “Absentee ballots remained the largest source of potential voter fraud.”?

Mr. Dorsey: (02:10:31)
I imagine that we would label it so that people can have more context and read through.

Sen. Ted Cruz: (02:10:36)
Okay. How about this quote, “Voter fraud is particularly possible where third-party organizations, candidates, and political party activists are involved in handling absentee ballots,” would you flag that as potentially misleading?

Mr. Dorsey: (02:10:56)
I don’t know the specifics of how we might enforce that, but I imagine a lot of these would have a label pointing people to a bigger conversation, a broader conversation.

Sen. Ted Cruz: (02:11:06)
Well, you’re right, you would label them because you’ve taken the political position right now that voter fraud doesn’t exist. I would note both of those quotes come from the Carter-Baker Commission on Federal Election Reform. That is Democratic President, Jimmy Carter and former Secretary of State James Baker and Twitter’s position is essentially voter fraud does not exist. Are you aware that just two weeks ago in the State of Texas, a woman was charged with 134 counts of election fraud? Are you aware of that?

Mr. Dorsey: (02:11:37)
I’m not aware of that.

Sen. Ted Cruz: (02:11:38)
If I tweeted that statement with a link to the indictment, would you put a warning on it that says, “Well, the Democratic Party position right now is voter fraud doesn’t exist.”?

Mr. Dorsey: (02:11:48)
I don’t think it’s useful to get into hypotheticals, but I don’t believe so.

Sen. Ted Cruz: (02:11:53)
You don’t believe so. Well, we’re going to test that because I’m going to tweet that and we’ll see what you put on it.

Sen. Ted Cruz: (02:11:57)
All right. Yesterday, Mr. Dorsey, you and I spent a considerable amount of time on the phone and you said that you wanted to embrace transparency. So I want to ask you, I have asked Twitter, I’ve asked Facebook multiple times, how many times have you blocked Republican candidates for office, their tweets or their posts in 2016 and 2018 and 2020? How many times have you blocked Democratic candidates for office? How many times have you blocked Republican office holders? How many times have you blocked Democratic office holders? Twitter has repeatedly refused to answer that question with specific hard data and cataloging the examples. In the interest of transparency, which you said you want to embrace, will you commit in this hearing right now to answer those questions in writing?

Sen. Lindsay Graham: (02:12:47)
And we’ll let that be the last question.

Mr. Dorsey: (02:12:48)
That’s exactly what we want to do.

Sen. Ted Cruz: (02:12:50)
I’m sorry, Mr. Dorsey, I didn’t hear you.

Mr. Dorsey: (02:12:52)
That’s exactly what we’re pushing for as we think about building upon 230, is transparency not just-

Sen. Ted Cruz: (02:12:58)
Is that a yes that you’ll answer those questions in writing?

Mr. Dorsey: (02:13:01)
Transparency not just of outcomes, but also our process as well.

Sen. Ted Cruz: (02:13:04)
Is that a yes that you will answer those questions in writing?

Mr. Dorsey: (02:13:08)
We’ll certainly look into it and see what we can do.

Sen. Ted Cruz: (02:13:10)
And actually answered them and not give lawyerly doublespeak about why you’re not going to give specifics, answer them. Will you commit to this committee that you will answer those questions?

Mr. Dorsey: (02:13:20)
We’re going to work to answering broader transparency around outcomes?

Sen. Ted Cruz: (02:13:24)
All right, that’s a no. Mr. Zuckerberg, how about you? Will you commit that Facebook will answer those specific questions cataloging the number of instances in which Democrats in ’16, ’18 and ’20 had been silenced versus the number of instances in which Republicans have been silenced on Facebook?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:13:40)
Senator, I’m not sure if we have that data available, but I will follow up with you or your team.

Sen. Ted Cruz: (02:13:47)
Okay, I’m going to take that as a yes, and I’m going to take Twitter, we’ll see if it’s a yes or, “Transparency is bogus and we don’t intend to provide it.”

Sen. Lindsay Graham: (02:13:55)
Senator Durbin?

Sen. Dick Durbin: (02:14:00)
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We live in a dangerous world, issues of national security, the worst pandemic public health crisis in modern times in America, and we were being challenged as to whether there is going to be a peaceful transition of power in America in the presidency. At that moment in time, we decided none of those topics were important and what was important was to determine whether or not social media was discriminating against Republicans. It’s an interesting question, I think there are more important and timely questions. We have a recount underway in Georgia, we have allegations made by the election officials, the Republican election officials, where they have faced literally death threats. We are trying to determine whether or not the social media instruments of America are fair to the Republican Party.

Sen. Dick Durbin: (02:15:08)
I’m trying to struggle with this issue because I want to put it in a context and maybe I can’t, maybe this is unique. We certainly know what the constitution says when it comes to free speech and we know what it meant over the years, New York Times versus Sullivan and others with publications, we certainly didn’t suggest that anyone that used a telephone line for nefarious, illegal, banded activity somehow implicated the telephone company into it by its nature. And then came radio and TV and we had to come up with new rules in terms of, at one time, equal time, fair content and so forth. And now we have this relatively new mechanism of communicating information and we’re trying to determine what to do with it, whether to treat it like a newspaper publishing or treat it like some sort of a communications network alone. Section 230 is an attempt to do that and I’m sure everybody finds fault with it.

Sen. Dick Durbin: (02:16:21)
I’d like to ask the two witnesses if they would comment on the historical aspects of this particular debate, if they have any thoughts? Mr. Zuckerberg,

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:16:36)
Senator, one of the points in the discussion that I find interesting is people ask if the regulatory model should be more like the news industry or more like telco’s, but from my perspective, these platforms are a new industry and should have a different regulatory model that is distinct from either of those other two. I think it is not the case that we are like a telco and that there are clearly some categories of content, whether it’s terrorism or child exploitation, that people expect us to moderate and address, but we’re also clearly not like a news publisher in that we don’t create the content and we don’t choose upfront what we publish, we give people a voice to be able to publish things. So I do think that we have responsibilities and it may make sense for there to be liability for some of the content that is on the platform, but I don’t think that the analogies to these other industries that have been created previously will ever be fully the right way to look at this. I think it deserves and needs its own regulatory framework to get built here.

Sen. Dick Durbin: (02:18:00)
Thank you. Would the other witness care to respond?

Mr. Dorsey: (02:18:07)
From a historical perspective, 230 has created so much goodness and innovation and if we didn’t have those protections when we started Twitter 14 years ago, we could not start. And that’s what we’re most concerned with is making sure that we continue to enable new companies to contribute to the internet, to contribute to conversation. And we do have to be very careful and thoughtful about changes to 230 because going one direction might box out new competitors and new startups, going another might create a demand for an impossible amount of resources to handle it, and going at another might encourage even more blocking of voices or what’s being raised here, which is censorship of voices and changing the internet dramatically. So…

Sen. Dick Durbin: (02:19:07)
SO let’s… Go ahead.

Mr. Dorsey: (02:19:09)
So I believe that we can build upon 230. I think we can make sure that we’re earning people’s trust by encouraging more transparency around content moderation and our process of it, I think we need much more straightforward appeals. And I think the biggest point to really focus on going forward is algorithms and how they are managing and creating these experiences and being able to have choice in how to use those algorithms on platforms like ours.

Sen. Dick Durbin: (02:19:42)
Let me get into a specific, Mr. Zuckerberg, October 10th, Detroit Free Press reported, “13 men charged Thursday in a conspiracy to kidnap Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer used Facebook and secure messaging apps to connect and plot their attack. The group’s use of Facebook spans almost a full year, members began-”

Sen. Dick Durbin: (02:20:03)
… Use of Facebook spans almost a full year. Members began to use the social media platform as a recruitment tool in November, 2019 according to an affidavit by Brian Russell, Detective Sergeant Michigan State Police. Once recruited, members communicated by a secure encrypting message platform. According to news reports, Facebook alerted the FBI about the Michigan kidnappers online activity several months before the arrest. Thank goodness. However, in August a Facebook page for the Kenosha Garden Militia, which advocated violence in the aftermath of the shooting of Jacob Blake was reportedly flagged over 455 times to Facebook. However, the page was deemed non-violating and left up. More than 4,000 people responded to that event, 100s of armed militia members showed up. A member of this group, a teenager from Illinois, later shot and killed two people on the streets of Kenosha. Mr. Zuckerberg, you describe Facebook’s handling of this militia page as an operational mistake. Can you explain the exact reason why the Kenosha militia page was not taken down?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:21:15)
Senator, yes. And first, what happened in Kenosha was obviously terrible. What happened here was we rolled out a strengthened policy around militia pages in general. Whereas before that, we would have allowed a group that was a militia as long as it wasn’t planning or organizing violence directly. In the lead up to the election, we strengthened the policy to disallow more of those groups because we were on high alert and were treating the situation is very volatile around potential civil unrest around the election. We just put that policy into place, and for a number of reasons, it had not yet been fully rolled out and all of the content reviewers across the company hadn’t been fully trained on that.

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:22:10)
So we made mistakes in assessing whether that group should be taken down. But upon appeal, when it was escalated to a more senior level of content review folks who have more specific expertise in these areas, we recognized that it did violate the policy and we took it down. It was a mistake, it was certainly an issue, and we’re debriefing and figuring out how we can do better. Although, one other piece that I would add is that the person who carried out the shootings was not in any way connected to that page or links to any of the content there from anything that we or others can tell.

Sen. Dick Durbin: (02:22:56)
Mr. Chairman, if I can ask one more question? Yesterday, the FBI released its annual hate crime incident report. The report found that more people were killed in hate motivated violence in 2019 than any year since the FBI began collecting hate crime data in 1990. The report also found that race-based hate crimes remained the most common type of hate crimes last year, and documented increase in religion based hate crimes, anti-Hispanic hate crimes, and hate crimes targeting individuals based on gender identity. Given these statistics, it appears to me that it’s more important than ever for social media companies to combat hate on their platforms. And I might add too what one of my colleagues stated earlier, this is not Antifa, but these are documented hate crimes from FBI.

Sen. Dick Durbin: (02:23:44)
Muslims have reached out to you many times, Mr. Zuckerberg, about this issue relating to published content that reflects on certain religious groups. And you said at a hearing, you do not allow hate crimes on Facebook. Yet in May, 2020, the tech transparency project found more than 100 American white supremacist groups, many of them explicitly anti-Muslim, active on the platform, both on their own group pages, as well as auto-generated content. Facebook did nominally alter some of the content, but the hate groups largely remained. Are you looking the other way, Mr. Zuckerberg, in a potentially dangerous situation?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:24:35)
No Senator, this is incredibly important and we take hate speech as well as incitement of violence extremely seriously. We banned more than 250 white supremacist organizations and treat them the same as terrorist organizations around the world. And we’ve ramped up our capacity to identify hate speech and incitement to violence before people even see it on the platforms. Our AI and human review teams, you can track our results in the transparency reports that we issue, now take down about 94% of the hate speech that we find on our platforms before anyone has to even report it to us, which is a dramatic amount of progress from where we were a few years ago when we were just starting to ramp up on this, where we’re taking about 20% of it down before people had to report it to us. So there’s still more progress to make. We’re very invested in this, and you have my commitment that we view this as an issue of the highest severity and one that we are very focused on.

Sen. Dick Durbin: (02:25:45)
Thank you very much.

Mr. Graham: (02:25:46)
Senator Sasse?

Ben Sasse: (02:25:48)
Thank you Mr. Chairman, thank you for hosting this hearing. Clearly important topics around content moderation. I’m a skeptic of the content moderation policies that exist, both because I don’t think the standards are very transparent and I don’t think the execution is very consistent. That said, I’m more skeptical than a lot of my colleagues, I think on both sides of the aisle, about whether or not there’s a regulatory fix that will make it better instead of worse. I especially think it’s odd that so many in my party are zealous to do this right now when you would have an incoming administration of the other party that would be writing the rules and regulations about it. And I think it’s telling that a number of folks on the other side of the diocese, I think of Senator Blumenthal, a guy I like, but who seemed to almost be giddy about the prospect of a new government regulatory agency to police online speech.

Ben Sasse: (02:26:45)
And I think a lot of people on my side should take pause at the idea that so many on the other side of the aisle are excited about having the next administration get to write these rules and regulations. But to the broader question, first just to get to kind of a level set, and I want to thank both the witnesses for being here today, but when Senator Lee lays out some of the issues he did about just that every human community is going to be situated in a different place about policy commitments and priorities and beliefs.

Ben Sasse: (02:27:14)
But when Senator Lee said that 93% of Facebook employees who contribute to politics do so on the left and 99%, I think it was, of Twitter employees contribute on the left, I would just be interested to see if either of the two of you think that has implications in the shepherding of your organizations. Again, I recognize fully that you’re private organizations, and so again, I’m more skeptical of a governmental fix for a lot of the problems we’re talking about here today. But I’m curious as to whether or not Mr. Zuckerberg and Mr. Dorsey, and I guess we’ll start with Facebook, I’m curious as to whether or not you think it’s likely that there is systemic bias inside your organization in the execution of content moderation policies given that your employee base is so unrepresentative of America in general.

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:28:04)
Senator, I think it’s a good question and certainly I think it means that we have to be more intentional about what we do, and thoughtful. Our principle and goal is to give everyone a voice and to be a platform for all ideas. As you mentioned, I do think it’s undisputed that our employee base, at least the full-time folks, politically would be somewhat, or maybe more than just a little somewhat, to the left of where our overall community is, where the community basically spans almost wide varieties of people across society. So I do think that that means that we need to be careful and intentional internally to make sure that bias doesn’t seep into decisions that we make. Although, I’d point out a couple of things. One is that people have a lot of different views outside of work, and we expect and I think generally see that people conduct themselves professionally. And second, the folks who are doing the content review work, we have about 35,000 people doing content review, are typically not based in Silicon Valley.

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:29:20)
They’re based in places all over the country and all over the world because we serve people in countries all over the world. So I think that the geographic diversity of that is more representative of the community that we serve than just the full-time employee base at our headquarters in the Bay area.

Ben Sasse: (02:29:42)
Thanks, Mr. Zuckerberg. Mr. Dorsey?

Mr. Dorsey: (02:29:45)
Yeah, this is obviously not something we interview for, and even have an understanding of when people are in the company. And with that understanding, we intend to make sure that both our policy and our enforcement is objective. And I realized that it looks rather opaque and certainly the outcomes might not always match up with our intention and the perception of those outcomes may not match up. But that’s why I think it’s so important that we’re not just transparent around our policies, but the actual operations of our content moderation. If people don’t trust our intent, if people are questioning that, that’s a failure and that is something that we need to fix and intend to fix. And I think it would benefit the industry as well. But I do, again, point back to something I said earlier on the testimony, which is a lot of these decisions are not being made by humans anymore, they’re being made by algorithms. And that’s certainly enforcement decisions, but also decisions around what you see or what you don’t see. And to me, that is the body of work, that is the conversation that we should be focused on because that is the enduring use case for everyone who interacts with these services.

Ben Sasse: (02:31:11)
Thank you. And I wish it were true, that these were all easy, objective questions. That the questions were, if somebody says, “Is the sky green?” That’s an objective question, that the sky is blue and white, not green. But most of the things we’re talking about here and the places where you’re applying content moderation labels are not really simply objective questions. They’re mostly subjective questions. If we talked about Medicare for All being easily paid for inside a ten-year budget window on assumptions, X, Y, and Z, that don’t raise taxes, that’s not true. There isn’t any math by which Medicare for All pays for itself in some short term window, but I don’t think any of us really think you’re going to slap a label on that saying, “This is disputed accounting or math or policy projections.” And so really what’s happening is there’s a prioritization grid that people are going through as they build even the algorithms, even those that aren’t driven by humans, and they’re driven by policy priorities of situated individuals.

Ben Sasse: (02:32:19)
I may be wrong about this, but my suspicion is that your employee base is not actually 99% left of center, I bet it’s less than that. And I would speculate that part of the reason less than 1% of your employees give money to candidates on the right is because there’s a social stigma attached to having conservative views inside your organization. And I would guess that those same sort of internal cultural biases inform the subjectivity of which issues end up labeled. So again, this is an odd place to be in that I am skeptical that the content moderation policies are thought out well. They’re not transparent enough for us to really know, but I’m definitely skeptical that they’re consistently applied. And yet I’m not really on the side of thinking there’s some easy governmental fix here. There’s a lot about Section 230 that we could debate.

Ben Sasse: (02:33:09)
I think some of the things Senator Durbin said about how in the era of telephones, nobody blamed the phone company for other people having spread misinformation by the phone. Exactly, that’s what would be the case if Section 230 were actually neutral, but you’re applying content moderation policies and seemingly in a way that’s not objective. So I know that I’m nearly at time, but I think it would be useful for us to hear from both of you to give us three or five-year window into the future. If there isn’t new legislation, what is changing besides just saying we’re moving from humans to more AI? What qualitatively is changing in the way content moderation happens inside your organizations short of a new regulatory scheme? Can you tell us where you think you’re actually improving and what problems you’re trying to solve? Mr. Zuckerberg, you first, please.

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:34:02)
Senator, one of the areas that we’re very focused on is transparency, both in the process and in the results. So we’re already at the point where every quarter we issue a community standards enforcement report that basically details the prevalence of each category of harmful content and how effective we are at addressing it before people have to even report it to us. Over time, we would like to fill that out and have more detail on that and then make it more robust. We’ve already committed to an independent, external audit of those metrics that people can trust them even more. People have lots of different kinds of requests for where we might go with that in the future, whether that’s breaking down the stats by country or language or into more granular buckets, adding more data around precision. But I think that that would all be very helpful so that people can see and hold us accountable for how we’re doing. And for what it’s worth, I think that that would be a valuable part of a regulatory framework that would not feel particularly overreaching to me, is something that could be put in law that would create an apples to apples framework that all companies in this space would have to report on the outcomes and effectiveness of their programs in that way, so at least we can see how everyone is doing. That seems like a sensible step to me.

Ben Sasse: (02:35:28)
Thank you, Mr. Dorsey?

Speaker 3: (02:35:30)
Senator Whitehouse.

Ben Sasse: (02:35:31)
Sorry, Mr. Dorsey is still answering the same question and then I’ll give it back to you in a hurry, Mr. [inaudible 02:35:36].

Speaker 3: (02:35:36)
So, sorry. I missed that. It’s a junior acting chairman. Mr. Dorsey?

Mr. Dorsey: (02:35:41)
Thank you. Well, if we’re considering three to five years out, I think the realization that a centralized global content moderation system does not scale and we need to rethink how we operate these services. And I would point to, we certainly need transparency around any process that we have and around the practice and the outcomes of those iterations. But I think having more control so that individuals can moderate themselves, pushing the power of moderation to the edges and to our customers and to the individuals using the service, is something we’ll see more of. And I also believe that having more choice around how algorithms are altering my experience and creating my experience is important. So being able to turn off ranking algorithms, being able to choose different ranking algorithms that are found written by third party developers in somewhat of an algorithmic marketplace, I think is important and a future that would excite and energize us.

Speaker 3: (02:36:55)
Thank you. I’ve appreciated my interaction with both of your companies in the run-up to this, and I think both of you said some meaty things there about ways we can move toward greater transparency. So I’ll follow up again. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

Mr. Graham: (02:37:07)
Thank you, Senator Whitehouse?

Sheldon Whitehouse: (02:37:09)
Thank you, Chairman. Gentlemen, let me start with just a moments history to give some context to my questions. When the tobacco industry discovered that its product was deadly, it responded to that news with a systematized program of denying that set of facts. The upshot for the tobacco industry was not great. It was found in federal court have been engaged in massive fraud and was put under court order to cease its fraudulent behavior. At around the same time, the fossil fuel industry began to run into a similar problem regarding the effects of its product and it picked up the tobacco industry scheme kind of where it left off, including using some of the same individuals, some of the same entities, many of the same methods as the tobacco industry’s denial operation.

Sheldon Whitehouse: (02:38:14)
These are persistent, highly motivated, very well-funded and complex information operations, not unlike a hostile intelligence service would run, and they are quite secretive. And we’re now seeing a new form, I guess you’d call it election denial, happening around our country right now. So that’s the background that I come at this from seeing and I’m wondering if each of you see a difference between individual error and basically mass disinformation. Is there a difference between odd people with fringe views who offer personal opinions and an orchestrated plan of deliberate misinformation or disinformation that is driven by motivated interests, whether foreign or domestic?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:39:11)
Senator, I absolutely think that there’s a difference and you can see it in the patterns of use on the platforms. And in our policies and operations, we view these coordinated, inauthentic behavior operations networks of fake and sometimes combining with real accounts to push out a message, but make it seem like it’s coming from a different place than it is, or it might be more popular than it is. This is what we saw the Internet Research Agency out of Russia do in 2016. And since then, a number of other governments and private organizations, including some companies like what you’ve mentioned, have engaged in this behavior.

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:39:58)
Now, the good news is that I think that the industry has generally gotten its systems to be a lot more sophisticated to defend against that in the last several years. It’s a combination of AI systems that we’ve built to find networks of accounts that aren’t really behaving quite the way that a normal person would coupled with large numbers of content reviewers, sometimes with expertise in counter terrorism or counter-intelligence. And then some signal sharing, whether it’s with the intelligence community, law enforcement, different groups that have expertise in different areas and with other tech platforms. But this is a big effort on, I think, all of our sides to make sure that we can defend against this kind of interference. And I think we are getting better and better at it.

Sheldon Whitehouse: (02:40:49)
Well, let me encourage you to persist. As you know, the last time you were here, you were asked about advertising paid for on Facebook denominated in rubles, which was not a very sophisticated scheme to be able to penetrate. But Facebook was unable to penetrate it and your upgrade from that original setup was simply to allow a shell corporation to intermediate between the real actor and not. So I encourage you to continue to try to make sure that real voices are what are heard on Facebook. Mr. Dorsey, let me turn to you and ask you the same question in the context of bots. Brown University recently did a study that showed that about 25% of all tweets about climate change are generated by bots. Most of them obviously push out climate denial, as I described that operation. How is Twitter’s capacity to identify a bot as opposed to a real customer?

Mr. Dorsey: (02:41:59)
Well, to build off your previous question, I do think there is a difference, as Mark said, and I do think there are many coordinated campaigns to manipulate the public conversation, to divide people all around the world, to confuse them and generally to distract. And we do have policies and enforcement to prevent as much of this as possible. It is a growing threat and it shows no signs of slowing down. Bots are one way that entities do this. Sometimes it may look like a bot, but it’s actually a human that it is organized with other humans for a particular agenda. So it is challenging. We are doing work right now to better identify bots on our service as a-

Sheldon Whitehouse: (02:42:48)
Let me just interject Mr. Dorsey real quick. As a baseline proposition, do you agree that a bot does not deserve a voice on your platform? That it should be actual people and organizations?

Mr. Dorsey: (02:43:01)
I don’t agree with that as a high-level. I think we should be labeling bots so that people have greater context for what they’re interacting with.

Sheldon Whitehouse: (02:43:10)
Fair enough.

Mr. Dorsey: (02:43:11)
There are plenty of bots on our service that provide a valuable function and I wouldn’t want to take that away.

Sheldon Whitehouse: (02:43:20)
Let me ask both of you, and maybe you can supplement this with the answer in writing for the record because my time is getting short and this is a complicated question, but the question is when does it matter to Twitter and when does it matter to Facebook to know who the actual entity is who is using your platform? Let me start with you, Mr. Dorsey, since Mr. Zuckerberg went first last time. And you can defer to a written answer if you’d like, because my time is running very short.

Mr. Dorsey: (02:43:58)
We’ll add to this conversation with a written answer, but I do believe that pseudonymity is important. We have seen its usefulness with activists and with whistle blowers, and I think that is critical. But certainly there are times, and it’s charged by the severity of potential outcomes, where we need to dig into identity and take actions.

Sheldon Whitehouse: (02:44:27)
We’ll follow up with that. And let me just ask you, since my time has expired, Mr. Zuckerberg, to respond or have your organization respond in writing. Thank you.

Mr. Graham: (02:44:36)
Thank you. Senator Whitehouse brought up something very important. Now I’m going to ask this as directly as I can. To Facebook and Twitter, do you have any internal research or evidence to suggest that your platforms can be addictive? Mr. Zuckerberg?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:45:04)
Senator, I think we can follow up with a summary of research that we have. But from what I’ve seen so far, it’s inconclusive and most of the research suggests that the vast majority of people do not perceive or experience these services as addictive or have issues. But I do think that there should be controls given to people to help them manage their experience better. And this is something that we’re very focused on.

Mr. Graham: (02:45:32)
Mr. Dorsey?

Mr. Dorsey: (02:45:34)
I’m not aware of internal research, but we can follow up. But I do think, like anything else, these tools can be addictive and we should be aware of that, acknowledge it, and make sure that we are making our customers aware of better patterns of usage. So the more information the better here.

Mr. Graham: (02:45:55)
Thank you. Senator Hawley?

Josh Hawley: (02:45:56)
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the late 19th century, the heads of the biggest corporations in America, the robber barons, got together and they set rates, they set prices, they determined how they would control information flow. They determined how they’d get rid of competition. And I’ll be darned if we aren’t right back there again. Except for this time, you’re the robber barons. Your companies are the most powerful companies in the world and I want to talk about how you’re coordinating together to control information. In recent days, my office was contacted by a Facebook whistleblower, a former employee of the company, with direct knowledge of the company’s content moderation practices. And I want to start by talking about an internal platform called Tasks that Facebook uses to coordinate projects, including censorship. The Tasks platform allows Facebook employees to communicate about projects they’re working on together. That includes Facebook’s censorship teams, including the so-called community wellbeing team, the integrity team, and the hate speech engineering team, who all use the task platform to discuss which individuals or hashtags or websites to ban. Now, Mr. Zuckerberg, you’re familiar with the test platform, aren’t you?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:47:11)
Senator, we use the Task system for, I think it’s, as you say, for people coordinating all kinds of work across the company, although I’m not sure if I’d agree with the characterization specifically around content moderation that you gave.

Josh Hawley: (02:47:28)
Well, let’s get into that. And let me see if we can refresh your memory and provide folks at home watching with an example. Here over my shoulder is an example, is a screenshot of the Task platform in use. You’ll notice, if the cameras zoom in, several references to election integrity throughout on these lists of tasks. Again, this is shared across Facebook sites, company locations by working groups. What particularly intrigued me is that the platform reflects censorship input from Google and Twitter as well. So as I understand it, Facebook censorship teams communicate with their counterparts at Twitter and Google, and then enter those companies suggestions for censorship onto the task platform so that Facebook can then follow up with them and effectively coordinate their censorship efforts. Mr. Zuckerberg, let me just ask you directly under oath now, does Facebook coordinate its content moderation policies or efforts in any way with Google or Twitter?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:48:32)
Senator, let me be clear about this. We do coordinate on and share signals on security related topics. So for example, if there is signal around a terrorist attack or around child exploitation imagery or around a foreign government creating an influence operation, that is an area where the companies do share signals about what they see. But I think it’s important to be very clear that that is distinct from the content and moderation policies that we or the other companies have, where once we share intelligence or signals between the companies, each company makes its own assessment of the right way to address and deal with that information.

Josh Hawley: (02:49:21)
Well, I’m talking about content moderation, I’m talking about individuals, websites, hashtags, phrases to ban. Is it your testimony that you do not communicate with Twitter or Google about content moderation, about individuals, websites, phrases, hashtags to ban? Just yes or no? Do you communicate with Twitter or Google about coordinating your policies in this way?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:49:46)
Senator, we do not coordinate our policies.

Josh Hawley: (02:49:49)
Do your Facebook content moderation teams communicate with their counterparts at Twitter or Google?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:49:56)
Senator, I’m not aware of anything specific, but I think it would be probably pretty normal for people to talk to their peers and colleagues in the industry. [crosstalk 02:50:05]

Josh Hawley: (02:50:04)
It would be normal, but you don’t do it?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:50:07)
No, I’m saying that I’m not aware of any particular conversation, but I would expect that some level of communication probably happens. It’s different from coordinating what our policies are or our responses in specific instances.

Josh Hawley: (02:50:22)
Well fortunately, I understand that the task platform is searchable. So will you provide a list of every mention of Google or Twitter from the task platform to this committee?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:50:34)
Senator, that’s something that I can follow up with you and your team after on.

Josh Hawley: (02:50:39)
Yes or no? I’m sure you can follow up with the list, but why don’t you commit while I’ve got you here under oath, it’s so much better to do this under oath. Will you commit now to providing a list from the tasks platform of every mention of Google or Twitter?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:50:55)
Senator, respectfully, without having looked into this, I’m not aware of any sensitivity that might exist around that. So I don’t think it would be wise for me to commit to that right now. So I would have to follow-

Josh Hawley: (02:51:08)
That’s a no. How many items on the task platform reflect that Facebook, Twitter, and Google are sharing information about websites or hashtags or platforms that they want to suppress?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:51:20)
Senator, I do not know.

Josh Hawley: (02:51:23)
Will you provide a list of every website and hashtag that Facebook content moderation teams have discussed banning on the task platform?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:51:33)
Senator again, I would be happy to follow up with you or your team to discuss further how we might move forward on that, but [crosstalk 02:51:42].

Josh Hawley: (02:51:41)
Will you commit to it here? Senator Cruz and Senator Lee both asked you for lists of individuals, websites, entities that have been subject to content moderation. You expressed doubt about whether any such information exists, but you’ve also now said that the task website… You’ve acknowledged the test platform exists, that it is searchable. So will you commit to providing the information you have logged on the task website about content moderation that your company has undertaken? Yes or no?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:52:09)
Senator, I think it would be better to follow up once I’ve had a chance to discuss with my team what any sensitivity around that would be that might prevent the kind of sharing that you’re talking about. But once I’ve done that, I would be happy to follow up.

Josh Hawley: (02:52:25)
All right. So you won’t commit to do it here. We could of course subpoena this information, but I’d much rather get it from you voluntarily. But I think, let everybody take note, that Mr. Zuckerberg has now repeatedly refused to provide information that he knows that he has and has now acknowledged that he has, that Tasks has [inaudible 02:52:42] Let me switch to a different topic. Mr. Zuckerberg, tell me about Sentra. What is the Facebook internal tool called Sentra?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:52:51)
Senator, I’m not aware of any tool with that name.

Josh Hawley: (02:52:55)
Well, let me see if this refreshes your memory. There’s a demonstrative now over my shoulder. Sentra is a tool that Facebook uses to track its users not just on Facebook, but across the entire internet. Sentra tracks different profiles that a user visits, their message recipients, they’re linked accounts, the pages they visit around the web that have Facebook buttons. Sentra also uses behavioral data to monitor users accounts even if those accounts are registered under a different name. And you can see a shot here, a screenshot provided to us of the central platform. We blocked out the user’s name in the interest of privacy, although you can see this individual’s birth date and age, when they first started using Facebook, their last login, as well as all manner of trackings. How many different devices have they used to access Facebook? How many different accounts are associated with their name? What accounts have they visited? What photos have they tagged? And on and on and on. Mr. Zuckerberg, how many accounts in the United States have been subject to review and shut down through Sentra?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:53:52)
Senator, I do not know because I’m not actually familiar with the name of that tool. I’m sure that we have tools that help us with our platform and community integrity work, but I am not familiar with that name.

Josh Hawley: (02:54:06)
Do you have a tool that does exactly what I’ve described and that you can see here over my shoulder? Or are you saying that that doesn’t exist?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:54:15)
Senator, I’m saying that I’m not familiar with it and that I’d be happy to follow up and get you and your team the information that you would like on this. But I’m limited in what I’m familiar with and can share today.

Josh Hawley: (02:54:32)
Always amazing to me, Mr. Chairman, how many people before this committee suddenly develop amnesia. Maybe it is something about the air in the room. Let me ask you this, when a Facebook employee accesses a user’s private information like their private messages or their personally identifiable data, is a record made of that, Mr. Zuckerberg?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:54:53)
Sorry Senator, could you repeat that?

Josh Hawley: (02:54:54)
Record made of any time a Facebook employee accesses a user’s private information, personal identifiable information?

Josh Hawley: (02:55:03)
… private information, personal identifiable information. For example, messages. Is a record made anytime a Facebook employee does that?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:55:09)
Senator, I believe so.

Josh Hawley: (02:55:10)
Does it trigger an audit?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:55:14)
Senator, I think sometimes it may.

Josh Hawley: (02:55:18)
How many audits have been conducted?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:55:21)
Senator, I do not know the exact number of audits off the top of-

Josh Hawley: (02:55:23)
Can you get me a list?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:55:26)
Senator, we can follow up on that to see what would be useful here.

Josh Hawley: (02:55:31)
I’m almost finished, Mr. Chairman. Will you commit to giving us a list of the number of times Facebook employees have accessed users’ personal account information without their knowledge? Yes or no?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:55:45)
Senator, we should follow up on what would be useful here. It is, of course, in the operations of the company, if someone reports something, sometimes necessary for people at the company to go review and understand the context around what is happening when someone reports something. So this is fairly frequent and is a matter of course. We do have security systems that can detect anomalous patterns to flag, but we should follow up in more detail on what you’re interested in.

Josh Hawley: (02:56:19)
Mr. Chairman, I’ll just say in closing that what we have here is clear evidence of coordination between Twitter, Google, and Facebook. Mr. Zuckerberg knows he has the tools to track this, but he either doesn’t remember or won’t commit to letting us see it. We have evidence of Facebook tracking its own users all across the web. Mr. Zuckerberg won’t answer questions about it, can’t remember the name, isn’t sure if the tool is deployed in this way, and won’t commit to giving us basic information. I submit to you that this is both totally unacceptable and totally predictable because it is exactly what these tech companies have done to the American people and to Congress for years now, which is why it is time we took action against these modern day robber barons. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

Chairman Graham: (02:56:58)
Senator Klobuchar.

Senator Klobuchar: (02:57:00)
I thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I’m, as you know, the lead Democrat on the Antitrust Subcommittee, and I’m going to take a little different approach here than Mr. Hawley did when it comes to competition policy because I understand why they might be coordinating when it comes to security. What I want to focus on is what I think we’re seeing all over this country, not just in tech. We’re seeing a start-up slump, we’re seeing more and more consolidation. And throughout history, we’ve seen that that is not good for small businesses, it’s not good for consumers, and it’s not good for capitalism in the end. Even successful companies, even popular companies, and even innovative companies are subject to the antitrust laws of this country. When I asked Mr. Pichai about this at the Commerce Committee hearing a few weeks ago, he said, he told me Google was happy to take feedback. And my response was that the Justice Department already provided feedback in the form of a federal antitrust complaint. And I know there is investigation reportedly going on out of the FTC right now regarding your company, Mr. Zuckerberg.

Senator Klobuchar: (02:58:12)
So I want to start with exclusionary conduct regarding excluding smaller competitors by limiting interoperability with the Facebook platform. The investigation that we saw in the House recently gave us a number of examples of companies, excluded companies, including Vine, Stackla, MessageMe, and Ark. And my view is this conduct, exclusionary conduct, not only damaged the ability of these smaller businesses to compete, but it deprived customers of convenient access. You’re one of the most successful companies, biggest companies in the world, Mr. Zuckerberg, Facebook. Do you think that this is fair competition or not with regard to the interoperability and how you’ve conducted yourself with these other companies?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (02:59:04)
Senator, I’m generally strongly in favor of interoperability and building platform and API access for companies to be able to access. That’s why we built the Facebook platform in 2007. Some of the policies that you mentioned I think came about because what we were seeing was not necessarily startups, but larger competitors like Google and some of our Chinese rivals from trying to access our systems in order to use their scale to compete with us better. And it just felt to us like, at the time, that that wasn’t the intent of what we were trying to enable.

Senator Klobuchar: (02:59:42)
Okay, well, we may have a non-Chinese example here. I just want to know, I know that maybe we could hear from Mr. Dorsey. And I have concerns about Facebook’s treatment of Twitter’s subsidiary, Vine. It’s my understanding is that once Facebook recognized Vine as a competitor after Twitter acquired it in 2013, it cut off Vine’s ability to interoperate with Facebook so that Vine users couldn’t upload their videos to Facebook. And then I think that Twitter shut down Vine in 2016. Mr. Dorsey, could you tell me about the actual impact of Facebook’s actions on Vine’s business, on Vine’s ability to compete, and on your decision to shut down the service? And I know you’re not a Chinese company.

Mr. Dorsey: (03:00:29)
Well, I don’t know about the intent on the other side, but I know our own experience was we found it extremely challenging to compete with Vine. And ultimately, decided that the ball moved past us and we shut it down. Again, I don’t know the specifics and the tactics and what was done, but we did find it very, very challenging market to enter even though we existed prior to some of our peers doing the same thing.

Senator Klobuchar: (03:01:03)
Okay, I’m going to move to something else quickly, Instagram and WhatsApp. We have some released internal Facebook emails in which you, Mr. Zuckerberg, wrote that Instagram was nascent, and if they grow to a large scale, they could be very disruptive to us. And in a later email, you confirmed that one of the purposes of Facebook acquiring Instagram would be to neutralize a competitor. You wrote those emails that were mentioned in that House report. Is that right, Mr. Zuckerberg?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (03:01:33)
Senator, I believe so. And I’ve always distinguished between two things, though. One is that we had some competition with Instagram in the growing space of kind of camera apps and photo sharing apps. But at the time, I don’t think we or anyone else viewed Instagram as a competitor as a kind of large multipurpose social platform. In fact, people at the time kind of mocked our acquisition because they thought that we dramatically spent more money than we should have to acquire something that was viewed as primarily a camera and photo sharing app at the time.

Senator Klobuchar: (03:02:11)
Okay, well, and then here’s the issues though. We don’t know how it would have done. And when we look at your emails, it kind of leads us down this road, as well with WhatsApp, that part of the purchase of these nascent competitors is to, I’ll use the words of FTC Chairman Joe Simons who just said last week, “A monopolous can squash a nascent competitor by buying it, not just by targeting it with anti-competitive activity.” So I know that this is a subject of investigation. Maybe we’ll be hearing something soon. But I think it’s something that committee members better be aware of, not just with Facebook, but what’s been going on with these deals that have gone through and how it has led to more and more consolidation, and how we as the Senate, and I just talked to Chairman Graham about this last week, could actually do something about this by changing some of the standards in our laws to make it easier to bring these cases, and not just involving tech.

Senator Klobuchar: (03:03:10)
So I want to go to something here at the end, the political ad discussion we had in front of the Commerce Committee, Mr. Zuckerberg. I know you said that Facebook had made over $2 billion on political ads over the last few years. You said, this was your quote, “Relatively small part of your revenue.” I know that, but it’s kind of a big part of the lives of politics when that much money is being spent on ads. This is a bill I actually have with Senator Graham. And yet, we have seen these political ads that keep creeping through despite your efforts to police them on your own. And this is why I would so badly like to pass The Honest Ads Act. One ad that went through, it says, “In three battleground states, ballots marked for Donald Trump had been discarded. Poll, will voter fraud only increase closer to November?” So it stated in three battleground states, paid ad, ballots marked for Donald Trump had been discarded. This played between September 29th and October 7th, 2020, had up to 200,000 impressions. Does this ad violate Facebook’s policy?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (03:04:16)
Sorry, can you repeat what the ad was?

Senator Klobuchar: (03:04:21)
The ad was an American Action News ad they’ve advertised a lot of in your platform. And it said, “In three battleground states, ballots marked for Donald Trump had been discarded.” This was pre-election.

Mr. Zuckerberg: (03:04:36)
Senator, I don’t know off the top of my head if that specific ad violates our policies. I’d be happy to follow up afterwards on that.

Senator Klobuchar: (03:04:42)
Okay, would you commit to a policy where actual people’s eyes, people, could review these ads instead of just being hit with algorithm review?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (03:04:57)
Senator, we do have a review and verification of political advertisers before they can advertise.

Senator Klobuchar: (03:05:03)
Okay, so does every ad go through a human being like the TVs do?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (03:05:13)
Senator, I think our policy is that we want to verify the authenticity of anyone who’s doing political or social issue advertising. And I think it’s worth noting that our people reviewers are not, in all cases, always more accurate than the technical systems-

Senator Klobuchar: (03:05:33)
Okay, so are you saying a human being reviews every ad? It’s just really yes or no or I don’t know?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (03:05:36)
Senator, I don’t know. I don’t think so.

Senator Klobuchar: (03:05:39)
Okay. Well, we’ll follow up then in the written. And then you brought these cease and desist order against NYU for publishing a report that noting over the last two years, Facebook has not properly labeled approximately 37 million in political ads. Why would you not support this project? Why would you bring a cease and desist against them?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (03:06:02)
Senator, is that the project that was scraping the data in a way that might’ve been a-

Senator Klobuchar: (03:06:08)
That’s your definition, but it’s.

Mr. Zuckerberg: (03:06:09)
The FTC consent decree that we have.

Senator Klobuchar: (03:06:12)
The reason it’s happening is we haven’t passed The Honest Ads Act. So they’re trying, they’re not violating privacy, they’re trying to get the ads so people can see the ads, other campaigns, journalists, everyone.

Mr. Zuckerberg: (03:06:25)
Senator, you know that I support The Honest Ads Act and agree that we should have that passed. And even before that, that we’ve implemented it across our systems. But I think in the case that you’re referring to, that project was scraping data in a way that we had agreed in our FTC consent decree around privacy that we would not allow. So we have to follow up on that and make sure that we take steps to stop that violation.

Senator Klobuchar: (03:06:56)
Okay. Last, Mr. Dorsey, do you think there should be more transparency with algorithms as part of this is not just … And I’m off of the ads now. I’m on just generically. Part of this is that people don’t know how this data is going across the systems and across the platforms. And people basically are buying access, has been my impression. So that even if you say like, “What’s the news in the last 24 hours?” Old stuff comes up. Something’s gone awry from the beginnings of this. Would it be helpful, do you think, if there was more transparency with algorithms?

Mr. Dorsey: (03:07:33)
I do think it would be helpful, but it’s technically very, very challenging to enforce that. I think a better option is providing more choice to be able to turn off the algorithms or choose a different algorithm so that people can see how it affects one’s experience.

Senator Klobuchar: (03:07:49)
Okay. Thank you. And I ask that both of you look at the bill that Senator Kennedy and I have, the Journalism Competition and Preservation Act, to help the content providers negotiate with digital platforms. Thank you.

Chairman Graham: (03:08:03)
Thank you. Senator Tillis.

Senator Tillis: (03:08:06)
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, gentlemen, for joining. Mr. Chairman, I know you’ve asked the question a couple of times about whether or not these platforms can be addictive. I think they probably can be based on what I’ve read in one of two ways. They could be just the nature of the personality and engagement in a tool that they can somehow relate to. But I also think there is a transactional addiction. And I think you also mentioned social dilemma. I think that’s the use of analytics, which I don’t criticize among the platforms, but it’s the use of analytics to addict you to go down a certain path to produce a certain outcome. And that could either be an outcome forming an opinion or an outcome buying something you didn’t even think about 30 minutes before you started going down that path. So I think there are things that we’ve got to look at. And I do agree with Mr. Zuckerberg and Mr. Dorsey, it’s not conclusive, but common sense would tell you it’s a problem already and it could become a bigger problem.

Senator Tillis: (03:09:07)
Mr. Zuckerberg, I’d like to go back to the task platform for a minute. When I looked at the screenshot that Senator Hawley put up, it looked a lot like a work management tool. Can you tell me a little bit about that? And how many people were actually engaged as users on that platform at Facebook?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (03:09:30)
Senator, yes, thank you. I was a bit surprised by Senator Hawley’s focus on our task system because all this is, it’s a basic internal project management tool. It’s exactly what the name sounds like. It’s used by companies, by people across our company, thousands of times a day to assign projects and track them. And it’s used for all manner of different types of tasks across different people and teams.

Senator Tillis: (03:10:03)
And do you know roughly how many Facebook either contractors or full-time employees are actually users of the task platform?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (03:10:15)
I think that probably the majority of Facebook employees and people we work with have some interaction with the task system as part of some part of their work. It’s basically just a company-wide to do list.

Senator Tillis: (03:10:32)
The other platform that Senator Hawley mentioned was the Centra platform. You said you weren’t familiar with that one, but I think that is something that would be helpful maybe as a followup to really understand the nature of that platform. I won’t press you on it today because you said you weren’t specifically familiar with the name of the tool, but I would be more interested in how it’s used. But Mr. Dorsey, does Twitter have a platform similar to the task platform for work management communication among staff?

Mr. Dorsey: (03:11:05)
Absolutely. I mean, even the smallest companies use these tools. We use a tool called [Tierra 00:03:11:10].

Senator Tillis: (03:11:11)
Yep. I was involved in implementing these in my time in technology sector so I could see why you have these platforms. But Mr. Zuckerberg, you mentioned you didn’t think there was a systematic coordination between Google and Twitter, but you could conceive of how people in similar professions may have a discussion, have a relationship, maybe talk about it over a beer. So could you see how the skeptic could see how these platforms could be used across platforms to force certain outcomes? Let’s say you had 100 people at Facebook, 100 people at Twitter, and 100 people at Google that all had a political bent. They get together, they share notes, and then they go back and make decisions that could make it appear like it’s a corporate initiative, but it could be an initiative by maybe some well-intentioned, but misguided staff. Could you at least conceive of that being possible?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (03:12:12)
Senator, I understand the concern and I think that coordination specifically on writing the policies or enforcement decisions could be problematic in the way that you’re saying, which is why I really wanted to make sure that it was clear that what we do is share signals around potential harms that we’re seeing, whether it’s specific content in the aftermath of a terrorist attack that people are trying to share virally. So that way if one platform is seeing it, another platform can be prepared that it will probably see that content soon too. Signals around foreign interference in elections. But I think it’s quite important that each company deals with those signals in the way that is in line with their own policies. And that, I think, is very different from saying that the companies are kind of coordinating to kind of figure out what the policies should be. I understand what the concern would be around that. And that’s why I wanted to be clear about what we do and don’t do there.

Senator Tillis: (03:13:16)
No, I agree with that. I would find it horribly irresponsible to think that this was some sort of a systematic approach across the platforms. But just with the sheer numbers of people that you all employ now, I could see how some of what’s been suggested here in the hearing could actually occur with just small groups of people trying to manipulate certain outcomes. I don’t want to get into details there except to know that the task platform, if it’s similar to ones that I have experience with, has a lot of logging, has a lot of data, to where maybe you could do yourself a service by saying, “I hear what’s been suggested here, but in analyzing the interactions between groups of people and seeing maybe some aberrations, some people being more active and more geared towards one outcome or another,” it could actually help you aleve some of our concerns with the way these platforms are being manipulated.

Senator Tillis: (03:14:14)
I’m not going to have time to drill down into some of the specific questions. I am glad to hear that you all are open on some regulatory outcome. I will tell you, if you listen to my colleagues on both sides of the aisle today, I fully expect that Congress is going to act in the next Congress, that we’re going to produce an outcome. And some people think that that’s not possible because that maybe the Republicans and Democrats are far apart. But if you listen to what they’re asking you, they’re concerned with a kind of outcome that they didn’t like on social media in equal measure. So I do believe that you would be well-served to come to the table as an industry and identify things.

Senator Tillis: (03:15:02)
Mr. Zuckerberg, I like what you’ve said about transparency. And Mr. Dorsey, I do think that the algorithms, when you talk about the sheer scale, are probably the most sustainable way to go. But we’re still going to have to have some confidence. I like your concept on choice as well, but we’re going to have to have more visibility in what’s occurred and what’s produced certain outcomes. Like a Veteran’s Day post that I did after the election, it was actually after my opponent had conceded. I just posted a picture thanking veterans. And for a period of time, I think it was suspended and directing people towards election results. I would like to think, if that was a result of an algorithmic decision, that my opponent, who almost certainly posted a veteran’s ad and every other person who was up for election got a similar treatment. Because if they didn’t, it would seem to me that there was some other factor in play if these algorithms are being applied to the base of, in that case, political commentary from elected officials or candidates.

Senator Tillis: (03:16:10)
So I view this hearing as an opportunity to seek your commitment on two things. One I mentioned to you all yesterday, I’ve got a Intellectual Property Subcommittee hearing in the middle of December. I would like to have a Facebook and Twitter representative there. I know that you’re very different platforms, but I think you play very prominently in a hearing that Senator Coons, who’s sitting across from me now, would like to have you represented. I think I can speak for Senator Coons that that would be helpful. And we’d like to get your commitment to have witnesses for that hearing in the middle of December. Mr. Zuckerberg, can I get that commitment?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (03:16:46)
Senator, yes. We will make sure that we have the right subject matter expert to join your hearing.

Senator Tillis: (03:16:53)
Thank you. And Mr. Dorsey?

Mr. Dorsey: (03:16:56)
We’ll follow up with determining the best course of action there.

Senator Tillis: (03:17:01)
Thank you. And then we’ll be following up on a series of questions that I’d like to ask that let me get my head around some of the analytics information that I think you almost certainly have and hopefully be willing to share it, but we’ll do that in a collaborative way in my office. Thank you for being here today.

Chairman Graham: (03:17:19)
Thank you. We’re going to take a five minute break. I think our witnesses have requested a break and they certainly have earned it. And if it’s okay with you, Senator Coons, we’ll come back in about five minutes. Thank you. [inaudible 03:17:43].

Chairman Graham: (03:22:36)
(silence). Okay. Do we have our witnesses on the other end? Mr. Zuckerberg, Mr. Dorsey? We got both. Thank you. I’m sorry we went so long without a break. Senator Coons.

Senator Coons: (03:23:06)
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the last four years, we have seen some unprecedented attacks on our democratic institutions, our social norms, the ways in which we conduct ourselves in this democracy, and many would say on truth itself. And in today’s society, you can’t talk about truth without also considering the impact of social media and social media platforms. So if I might, Mr. Zuckerberg and Mr. Dorsey, free expression and open debate are, of course, core values of our society. But whether you wished for it or not, the inescapable fact is your algorithms, your policies, and your business decisions shape what billions of people across the world, and a working majority of people here in our nation, understand to be true. That’s the case for election integrity, for a potential COVID-19 vaccine, for climate change, for hateful and dangerous stereotypes, and many other critical issues.

Senator Coons: (03:24:04)
I also want to recognize that it, in no small part, was the hard work of many, led by your ingenuity and resolve, that built these impressive American companies and revolutionized the way the world communicates. We need that same resolve to reckon today with what must be done to win our society’s battle for truth. Mr. Zuckerberg, as you know, yesterday, I sent you, along with 14 of my colleagues, a total of 15 senators, we sent you a letter urging Facebook to do more to address hate speech and calls to violence on the platform. We focused particularly on anti-Muslim bias on an issue that warrants specific attention given the tragic consequences of anti-Muslim hate speech in Myanmar and Sri Lanka and New Zealand and right here in the United States. And I appreciate that Facebook has taken actions in response to these issues, but this letter points out why we need better metrics and transparency to actually evaluate your actions. So my colleagues and I urge better enforcement, in particular, of your call to arms policy, which could have made a difference in a recent tragedy in Kenosha, Wisconsin.

Senator Coons: (03:25:17)
You and I spoke last week. I appreciated our conversation. Can I count on you to provide specific and written responses to each of the questions in this letter? And then can we discuss them again?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (03:25:33)
Senator, yes. I read your letter and I commit to getting back in detail with our team to address the important topics that you’ve raised. And one of your questions that I can actually answer right now, I think it was your second question about reporting in our quarterly transparency reports about the prevalence of hate speech that we find on our platforms. We will actually be adding that metric into our transparency reports this Thursday when we announce our latest transparency report.

Senator Coons: (03:26:16)
Thank you, Mr. Zuckerberg. Let me just make sure I hear you right about prevalence because that’s one of my areas of concern is the absence from the report of the prevalence of hate content. You mean you’ll be reporting, not just what percentage of hate speech on the platform you’re identifying, catching, proactively removing, but the total volume?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (03:26:37)
Senator, that’s my understanding is, yeah, the prevalence of that content as a percentage of content on the platform. And over time, our goal is going to be to get into more detail, which is the subject of some of the questions that you’ve asked here, as well as we’ve already committed to an independent audit of the community standards enforcement reports. So that way people can have full confidence in all of the numbers that we’re putting out. We’ve been doing these reports for, I think, less than a few years now. And we’ll continue to flesh them out and add more details, that way people can apply the appropriate oversight and scrutiny to the work.

Senator Coons: (03:27:21)
Thank you. I want to move on for a moment, if I could, about your call to arms policy. You said earlier today that Facebook made an operational mistake in not taking down an event page that called for people to bring weapons to a public park in Kenosha. As I think we all know, there was a tragic incident of vigilantism in Kenosha where a young man brought his AR-15 from Illinois to Kenosha and ended up with two protesters dead and one injured. You indicated this operational mistake was because Facebook had just adopted its militia policy a week earlier, and contractors without specialized training didn’t pick up the violation. And I appreciate your frankness as to that in your answers to questions earlier today from Senator Durbin. But your response to Senator Durbin didn’t mention that the event page also violated a separate call to arms policy in place for over a year that contractors aren’t tasked to enforce. So I just have to ask as a followup, why didn’t you before, and also today, reference the call to arms policy when reviewing what went wrong in Kenosha?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (03:28:31)
Senator, my understanding is that that post did not necessarily violate that call to arms policy at the time. The call to arms policy does not prohibit anyone from saying, “Let’s go get our guns and do something.” For example, if people are organizing a hunting trip, that’s obviously not going to be something that should be against the policies. But what we do on some of these policies, which I think I’m glad to get the opportunity to address this, is some of these are context specific and just require a higher level of context and expertise in the area to enforce. So we don’t necessarily have all of the 35,000 reviewers assess every single one of these policies. So I can follow up in more detail, if you’d like, on the call to arms policy and the nuance there specifically, but that’s also a bit on how we operationalize these policies.

Senator Coons: (03:29:36)
Thank you for that answer. I do want to follow up because just facially, it seemed to me that this was a violation of your own call to arms policy. But I look forward to that conversation. Mr. Dorsey, if I might, at a House Energy Committee hearing, I think it was two years ago, you committed to something that I was just discussing with Mr. Zuckerberg, an independent civil rights audit. But in your case, of Twitter. The audit released by Facebook in July has proven invaluable-

Senator Coons: (03:30:03)
… Twitter, and the audit released by Facebook in July has proven invaluable to bringing sunlight to some key areas in which Facebook does need to improve. Will you follow through in your commitment and commission to this independent audit of Twitter?

Mr. Dorsey: (03:30:15)
So we work with civil rights groups all over the country and around the world to get feedback. We’re in constant conversation with them, and we do believe that being more transparent and making our transparency report a lot more robust, which today we still have some gaps, is important for any entity to audit independently of us. We believe that’s important, because an audit like that could take away from the work that we need to do. We’d rather provide the information in a raw format so that people can do that work.

Senator Coons: (03:30:51)
If I heard you right, you aren’t going to pursue an independent civil rights audit, but you are going to continue to release data and to consult with civil rights groups. I’d welcome a more thorough answer as to in which way having an independent outside audit would actually harm your transparency efforts.

Mr. Dorsey: (03:31:11)
I don’t mean it would harm it. I mean that we want to provide enough information so that people can do this work independently of us on their own timelines, and that’s where we need to make our transparency report more robust. And as I said, we have regular conversations with these groups and take feedback regularly.

Senator Coons: (03:31:32)
You do, Mr. Dorsey, have policies against deep fakes or manipulated media against COVID-19 misinformation, against things that violate civic integrity, but you don’t have a standalone climate change misinformation policy. Why not?

Mr. Dorsey: (03:31:51)
Well, misleading information, as you are aware, is a large problem. It’s hard to define it completely and cohesively. We wanted to scope our approach to start to focus on the highest severity of harm. We focused on three areas, manipulated media, which you mentioned, civic integrity around the election, specifically in public health, specifically around COVID. We wanted to make sure that our resources that we have have the greatest impact on where we believe the greatest severity of harm is going to be. Our policies are living documents. They will evolve. We will add to them, but we thought it important that we focus our energies and prioritize the work as much as we could.

Senator Coons: (03:32:41)
Well, Mr. Dorsey, I’ll close with this. I cannot think of a greater harm than climate change, which is transforming literally our planet and causing harm to our entire world. I think we’re experiencing significant harm as we speak. I recognize the pandemic and misinformation about COVID-19, manipulated media also cause harm, but I’d urge you to reconsider that because helping to disseminate climate denialism, in my view, further facilitates and accelerates one of the greatest existential threats to our world. So thank you to both of our witnesses. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

Mr. Graham: (03:33:17)
Senator Ernst.

Senator Ernst: (03:33:22)
Thank you, Mr. Chair, and Mr. Zuckerberg and Mr. Dorsey, thank you both for being here with us today virtually and for your commitment to constantly improving the way your platforms are serving people across the country. There has been a lot of talk today. Many of us have been listening from our offices or online about the censorship of ideas and news on your platforms, and these are the things that have been at the forefront of American’s minds in the lead up to the election, as well as the week since our 2020 general election. The people that I hear from, of course, believe that conservatives were wrongfully being silenced while those on the left that were given basically free reign of your platforms. One of the points of contention that is often brought up is that you do recruit heavily from California, which leads to your employee base skewing quite heavily to the left.

Senator Ernst: (03:34:28)
So my first question is for both of you. Do you have concerns about your ability to monitor disinformation on both sides of the political aisle equally, given that the majority of your employees typically do lean towards the more progressive side? And again, to both of you, have you taken any steps then at all to make your employee base more representative of the country as a whole when it comes to political affiliation? And Mr. Zuckerberg, if we could start with you, please.

Mr. Zuckerberg: (03:35:08)
Thank you, Senator. I think those are both really important topics. In terms of assessing what is misinformation, I think it’s important that we don’t become the deciders on everything that is true or false ourselves, which is why we’ve tried to build a program of independent fact checkers that we can work with on this, and those fact checkers are accredited not by us but by the independent Poynter Institute for journalism as part of the international fact-checking network, and it includes fact checkers that I think span the political spectrum, as well as I think the majority of them who would call themselves apolitical. So we’ve tried to address the issue of making sure that there isn’t a bias in our actions by actually having us not be the deciders on that type of content ourselves. And to your second question about taking steps to diversify the employee base, we this is a sensitive area in that I don’t think it would be appropriate for us to ask people on the way in as they were interviewing what their political affiliation is, which of course makes it hard to know. (silence).

Mr. Dorsey: (03:38:05)
And I think the tools are in a state where we can do that more easily. We’ve obviously been forced to do it with COVID, and I don’t think it’s a state that we will return from. The days of having one centralized massive corporate headquarter in any one particular city are certainly over for us at least, and I think many other entrepreneurs starting companies today.

Senator Ernst: (03:38:30)
Yeah, very good. I really appreciate that, and I think that COVID has taught us all a very important lesson. For those to be able to work remotely, I think you will find a greater diversity in thought, which is very important I think for the types of platforms that you both represent.

Senator Ernst: (03:38:48)
Now, I’d like to move on to an entirely different topic, and since I began my career here in the Senate, I have been committed to of course protecting those who need it most and, and folks, our children are the most in need, and it’s our job as lawmakers to respond to the ongoing threats against them. Social media has created a whole new world for all of us, and it can help us share that information and resources with the public about human trafficking and child exploitation, and it can also help us keep track of sexual predators and ensure our children are safe from those known threats. In fact, I’ve been working on legislation that would help update what information sexual predators have to provide about their online identities. And as we all know, however, social media can also be incredibly harmful. Child sexual abuse materials, CASM, is present on nearly every single social media platform that exists, and in such polarized times, I am grateful that it is this subject that we do find it doesn’t matter if you’re on the left or the right. We can come together to find solutions for this issue.

Senator Ernst: (03:40:10)
Mr. Zuckerberg, I know that you and I touched upon this briefly last week when we spoke over the phone, and I do hope, Mr. Dorsey, that you also share Mr. Zuckerberg’s commitment to fighting these types of issues on your platforms. So just very briefly here as I’m running out of time, but Mr. Zuckerberg, I do understand that Facebook is planning to outfit Facebook Messenger with end to end encryption. And how do you hope to prevent the dissemination of child sexual abuse material if neither law enforcement nor you can access that messenger data? Is there some sort of apparatus that you will have in place that can help law enforcement with those situations? And then Mr. Dorsey, we’ll go to you next as well.

Mr. Zuckerberg: (03:40:59)
Senator, thank you for this. I think you’re you’re right on every count in what you just said, both that child sexual exploitation is one of the greatest threats that we focus the most on, And it is also an area that we’ll face new challenges as we move to intending encryption across our messaging systems. Of course, the reason why we’re moving to encryption is because people want greater privacy and security in their messaging systems, and over time are choosing systems that can provide them more privacy and security. That’s something that I think it makes sense for us to offer. I think encryption broadly as good, but it is going to mean that we’re going to need to find and develop some new tactics.

Mr. Zuckerberg: (03:41:53)
A lot of what we have found around the best ways to identify bad actors on our systems is not actually by looking at the specific content itself, but by looking at patterns of activity and where is it that a group or a person is not behaving in the way that a normal person would, so you can flag and review that? And we’ve grown increasingly sophisticated at that. That that goes across the foreign interference prevention work that we do, and it also will be a factor here, and I’d be happy to follow up in more detail on what we have planned. But overall, I would say that this is something that we were very focused on, and I agree with your concern.

Senator Ernst: (03:42:37)
Okay, thank you very much. And Mr. Dorsey, you as well, so those that are on Twitter, making sure that law enforcement would have access if at all possible, if you could give me an overview of that, please?

Mr. Dorsey: (03:42:51)
Child exploitation is absolutely terrible, and we don’t tolerate it on our service at all. We regularly work with law enforcement to address anything that we see, inclusive of the patterns that Mark has mentioned. The majority of Twitter is public, so we don’t have as much activity in private channels, so it’s a different approach, but we still see the same activity, and it’s one of our highest priorities in terms of the severity of harm.

Senator Ernst: (03:43:22)
Thank you both very much for being accessible to us today. I truly appreciate your input. Mr. Chairman, thank you.

Mr. Graham: (03:43:29)
Thank you, Mr. Zuckerberg, I really want to appreciate what Facebook has done in the area of sexual exploitation of children. You all have done a very good job of trying to help law enforcement in that area. Senator Hirono.

Senator Hirono: (03:43:42)
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Zuckerberg, for the second time in three weeks, you’ve been called before the Senate committee so that my Republican colleagues can beat you up over claims that your platforms are supposedly biased against conservatives. The fact of the matter is that these allegations are completely baseless. Everyone who has systematically looked at the content on social media from Media Matters to the Cato Institute to former Republican Senator John Kyl has found absolutely no evidence of anti-conservative bias, and data from CrowdTangle show that far right content from the likes of Fox News, Ben Shapiro, David Bongino dominates the daily top 10 most engaged pages on Facebook. So all of these allegations about the fact that you hire or all of your employees are left of center is a relevant of nothing, certainly not relevant on some sort of anti-conservative bias in terms of your practical moderation.

Senator Hirono: (03:44:48)
So the way I see it, this hearing is a transparent effort by my Republican colleagues to work the refs, and unfortunately, in my view, it is working. Two weeks ago, The Washington Post reported that Facebook has bent over backwards to avoid claims that it was biased against conservatives, and it removed a strike against Donald Trump Jr.’s Instagram account that would have penalized them as a repeat offender, apparently, one of several strikes removed from the accounts of Trump family members. For Trump super PAC, American First Action was allowed to post material rated false by Facebook’s third party fact checkers without penalty. These are just a few examples, and they are nothing new. In 2019, Facebook included Breitbart, a website described by its co-founder as a platform for the alt-right, as one of its trusted news sources. Early in 2019, Facebook selected The Daily Caller, another site with white nationalist ties, to be one of its third party fact checkers.

Senator Hirono: (03:46:00)
And the Wall Street Journal has reported how Joel Kaplan, former deputy chief of staff to George W. Bush, stopped changes designed to make Facebook’s algorithms less divisive because the changes would have disproportionately affected conservative users and publishers according to Kaplan. So Mr. Zuckerberg, you founded Facebook, a company with a market capitalization of approximately $80 billion, and you control a majority share of the company’s voting stock. Mr. Zuckerberg, I’m really wondering at what point you will stop giving in to basis claims of anti-conservative bias and start exercising your control over Facebook to stop driving division and actually, to quote you, “build community and bring the world closer together,” as you claim is Facebook’s mission.

Senator Hirono: (03:46:54)
My questions to both of you; a recent Harvard study found that President Trump was the single biggest source of voting related misinformation in the run-up to the presidential election. Since the election, President Trump has only continued the lies on Twitter and Facebook, also claiming that he won reelection and that the election is being stolen from him. But the truth is Joe Biden won the election, as major news networks and the Associated Press have confirmed. In response to President Trump’s lies, you have, at most, added a warning label while still allowing the president’s misinformation to remain online. In response to questions from Senator Feinstein, we defended the labels, claiming they point people to a broader conversation around the election. I have serious questions about the effectiveness of these labels, particularly since President Trump and his allies continue to spread their lies. For both of you, what evidence do you have that these labels are effective in addressing President Trump’s lies? Response, please.

Mr. Dorsey: (03:48:05)
So I think Mark mentioned this earlier as well. We are doing a retrospective on the effectiveness of all of our actions through the election. We believe the labels point to, as you said, a broader conversation that people can see what’s happening with the election and with the results. We don’t want to put ourselves in a position of calling an election. That is not our job, so we’re pointing to sources and pillars that have traditionally done this in the past, and that is the intention of the policy. That’s the intention of the labeling system.

Senator Hirono: (03:48:47)
Mr. Zuckerberg?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (03:48:50)
Senator, we view the additional context that we put on posts as part of an overall response and effort to make sure that people have reliable information about the election. So we don’t expect that it’s just going to be when people are seeing a post that may be casting doubt on a legitimate form of voting or may have misinformation that we can correct and help people understand how they could really vote, for example. So that’s why we put the Voter Information Center prominently on the top of Facebook and Instagram for months leading up to the election and kept it afterwards so people can see reporting on the results.

Mr. Zuckerberg: (03:49:40)
As I mentioned in my opening statement, 140 million Americans visited that. I think this was the largest voting information campaign in the history of our country, so I think when taken together, these actions were quite strong of an effort to communicate accurate, reliable information to people at the times when they needed it, about how they can vote in the election, encouraging them to vote, having confidence in the election system, knowing who and when the election had been called. It’s just part of an overall system.

Senator Hirono: (03:50:19)
My time is running. So all of the information, the actual information about voter information you provide, that is good, but we’re talking about all of the misinformation. Actually, outright lies that are put out by the president, and you have these labels, and I really have questions as to whether or not this kind of labeling, and I’m glad that at least Mr. Dorsey is determining whether these labels do anything to actually create a larger framework for discussion. I really seriously doubt whether that is actually happening. Since I’m running out of time, I just wanted to get to Donald Trump is president, you consider a user of these. A lot of his posts get on whether they contain misinformation, especially on whether he won the election and COVID. You name it, the fraudulent elections that he alleges, et cetera. But I wonder what are both of you prepared to do regarding Donald Trump’s use of your platforms after he stops being president? Will he still be deemed newsworthy and will he still get to use your platforms to spread this misinformation?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (03:51:33)
Senator, let me clarify. My last answer, we are also having academic study, the effect of all of our election measures, and they’ll be publishing those results publicly. In terms of President Trump and moving forward, there are a small number of policies where we have exceptions for politicians under the principle that people should be able to hear what their elected officials are saying and candidates for office. But by and large, the vast majority of our policies have no newsworthiness or political exception, so if the president or anyone else is spreading hate speech or inciting violence or posting content that delegitimizes the election or valid forms of voting, those will receive the same treatment as anyone else saying those things, and that will continue to be the case.

Senator Hirono: (03:52:31)
Remains to be seen. Mr. Dorsey?

Mr. Dorsey: (03:52:34)
So we do have a goal around public interest where for global leaders, we do make exceptions in terms of whether, if a tweet violates our terms of service, we leave it up, but we leave it up behind an interstitial, and people are not allowed to share that more broadly, so a lot of the sharing is disabled with the exception of quoting it so that you can add your own conversation on top of it. So if an account suddenly is not a world leader anymore, that particular policy goes away.

Mr. Graham: (03:53:11)
Thank you.

Senator Hirono: (03:53:11)
So I am running out of time, but, Mr. Chairman, I’d like to enter into the record a number of studies, particularly a November 1, 2020 article in the Washington post titled “Trump allies largely unconstrained by Facebook’s rules against repeating falsehoods, cement pre-election dominance,” a May 26, 2020 article in the Wall Street Journal titled “Facebook executives shutdown efforts to make the site less divisive,” three studies from Media Matters finding no anti-conservative bias on Facebook, and an article by Dr. Francesca Tripodi titled, “No, big tech isn’t silencing conservatism.” I would like to enter these items into the record.

Mr. Graham: (03:53:52)
Without objection. Senator Kennedy.

Senator Kennedy: (03:53:57)
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen, each of you has founded an extraordinarily successful company, and they’re both American companies, and I think I would be remiss if I didn’t say congratulations. I’m very proud of the fact that it was American ingenuity that did this. I think we can also both agree that both Twitter and Facebook have enormous power as a result of your success. You’re not companies, your countries, at least in terms of power. I want to test a point of view here. I’m not sure I subscribe to it, but I want to get your thoughts on it. Mr. Dorsey, do you believe everything you read?

Mr. Dorsey: (03:55:09)
No.

Senator Kennedy: (03:55:10)
Why not?

Mr. Dorsey: (03:55:13)
I think it’s healthy to have skepticism about everything and then have a mindset of verifying it and using as much information as possible to do so.

Senator Kennedy: (03:55:26)
Do you have somebody on your staff who protects you from reading things that they think you shouldn’t?

Mr. Dorsey: (03:55:34)
No.

Senator Kennedy: (03:55:36)
Mr. Zuckerberg, do you believe everything you read?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (03:55:41)
No, Senator.

Senator Kennedy: (03:55:43)
Why not?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (03:55:47)
Because of a lot of things are incomplete or incorrect.

Senator Kennedy: (03:55:53)
So you exercise your own judgment?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (03:55:57)
Yes, Senator.

Senator Kennedy: (03:56:00)
Okay. Do you have somebody on your staff whose job is to filter things that they think you should not be reading?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (03:56:12)
Senator, not externally, although I would hope that the teams that I work with internally do their best to make sure that the information that they’re presenting me with are always accurate.

Senator Kennedy: (03:56:27)
Okay. Here is a point of view. I’m not sure I subscribe to it, but it is a legitimate point of view, I think, and I’d like to know your thoughts on it. You have both, and this is directed to each of you, you have both Democrats and Republicans upset with you. The Democrats are upset with you, this point of view holds because they want you to publish … I’m not using that word as a term of art or science here with any special meanings. The Democrats want you to publish stuff on your platforms that they agree with, but they don’t want you to publish stuff that they disagree with. This point of view also holds that the Republicans are upset with you because they want you to publish things on your platforms that they agree with, but they don’t want you to publish stuff on your platforms that they disagree with.

Senator Kennedy: (03:57:43)
What if we had a rule? What if your companies had rule? This is a question, not a suggestion. What if your companies had a rule that said, “Okay, people aren’t morons. I would like to treat people as they treat me. That is that I can read what I want to read and exercise my own good judgment about whether I choose to believe it, so here’s the rule we’re adopting. If you go on Twitter or Facebook, you can’t bully people. You can’t threaten people. Maybe this is a subset of both of those, but you can’t commit a crime with your words and you can’t incite violence. But other than that, you can print any damn thing you want to, and we’ll let our users judge.” Give me your thoughts on that.

Mr. Dorsey: (03:59:04)
Those are generally the rules that we have. I mean, our focus on these policies-

Senator Kennedy: (03:59:09)
No, you don’t, Mr. Dorsey. Excuse me for interrupting, but you’re censoring right and left trying to make both sides happy, and you’re making neither side happy.

Mr. Dorsey: (03:59:20)
No, that’s not the intention. The intention is to-

Senator Kennedy: (03:59:23)
I know it’s not the intention, but it’s the result.

Mr. Dorsey: (03:59:28)
I can see why you might say that and why you might perceive that, and that’s why we do think it’s important that we add more transparency to how we moderate content, that we give more control to individuals to moderate their own content and focus on algorithms. But a lot of our policies are focused on making sure that people feel that they can express themselves in the first place and not driven away. Everything that you mentioned about bullying, about harassment, around illegal content or violence, incitement to violence, that is what our policies are, and that is our intent.

Senator Kennedy: (04:00:00)
I know, and excuse me for interrupting, but my time’s limited, and I want to hear from Mr. Zuckerberg. But you’re not just doing that. You’ve started to sensor content. Why not have both Mr. Biden and Mr. Trump able to say whatever they want to on your platform, so long as they don’t threaten, bully, incite violence, commit a crime. I’m not justifying the use of either Twitter or Facebook to hurt the Rohingyas. Mr. Zuckerberg, what are your thoughts on my suggestion? Get out of the censorship business other than the exceptions I talked about?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (04:00:43)
Senator, in principle, I agree with what you are saying, although I think that there are more categories of harm than just the ones that you’ve mentioned. But I think the basic principle behind what you’re saying is a definition of free expression that says that people should be able to share their opinions broadly, except if it’s going to cause imminent or irreparable harm to another person, which even the most ardent first amendment supporters agree that you shouldn’t be able to yell “fire” in a crowded theater if there’s not actually a fire, because that could put people in the risk of imminent harm. So you mentioned terrorism, you mentioned child exploitation and bullying as forms of harm, and I think a lot of the debate is around what are other forms of harm? For example, we’re in the middle of a pandemic, and we’ve assessed that misinformation about COVID and treatments that could put people in additional risk of getting the disease or not seeking the right treatment if they have it, that those are also things that could cause imminent harm. We’ve taken the position that select-

Senator Hirono: (04:02:03)
Mr. Zuckerberg, let me interrupt you, and I really do apologize, but I’m going to be cut off in a second and appropriately so. I’m not saying you’re wrong by doing what you just described, but that makes you a publisher, and that creates problems with Section 230. I just think one point of view is that at some point, we’ve got to trust people to use their own good judgment, to decide what they choose to believe and not believe and not try to assume that we’re smart and they’re stupid, and that we can discern believable information and information that shouldn’t be believed, but everybody else is too stupid to do it. I’m done. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

Mr. Graham: (04:03:04)
I think you put your finger on a really maybe the central issue, Senator Kennedy, is how do we let people make up their own minds without what they’re saying, creating violence or threats to others, a very complicated endeavor. Senator Booker. Senator Booker?

Senator Booker: (04:03:27)
Thank you. Chairman, can you hear me? Chairman?

Mr. Graham: (04:03:30)
Yes, and to our witnesses, we have two more senators and we’ll be done, and I appreciate your patience. Senator Booker.

Senator Booker: (04:03:38)
I appreciate that, Mr. Chairman, and I appreciate listening to this hearing. I really want to bring just focus back to what I think is why we’re here, which is the 2020 election, and I’ve been saying in this committee for many months now about the tragic consequences of us normalizing things that should express considerable outrage. There’s not a person on this committee on either side that doesn’t know who the next president of United States will be. President-elect Joe Biden and Kamala Harris will be the president and vice president of United States come January 20th, but what is going on right now is dangerous, and it is a threat to our democracy. For the first time in American history, we are seeing a sitting president of the United States make wild and baseless accusations that undermine the democratic process, that don’t just delegitimize it.

Senator Booker: (04:04:35)
What the president United States is doing is trying to thwart our democracy. As we speak, Donald Trump is waging an all out war on the truth and our democratic systems, and one of his weapons of choice in this distant formation war is social media, and specifically the two gentlemen here, their platforms, Twitter and Facebook. You have the tools to prevent him from weaponizing these platforms to degrade our democracy and our democratic …

Senator Booker: (04:05:03)
… weaponizing these platforms to degrade our democracy and our democratic institutions, and to cause such damage that even after January 20th, it could be one of the first times that millions of Americans think and believe that this election was what is baselessly being charged by Donald Trump.

Senator Booker: (04:05:20)
Let’s be clear on what’s happened. Donald Trump’s shameful and shameless lies that are persisting about voter fraud and the outcome of this election were some of the most engaged content on social media in the days after the election. By one measure, during the week after the election, his posts on Facebook made up all, every single one of the top 10 most engaged posts in the United States, and 22 out of 25 of the top most engaged posts in our country. And his number one post, the top of them all, was a false declaration of victory. On Twitter, his tweet on falsely claiming victory was viewed by millions of users. This was, and is, not just a disinformation campaign by the President of United States, but literally the most powerful person in our country doing an all out assault on the Constitutional ideal of a democracy that he was sworn to protect.

Senator Booker: (04:06:23)
Let’s take a step back, because I think this would be bipartisan if we looked at what was happening in another country. If we saw, and I’m on the Foreign Relations Committee and I know how we come together on issues like this, if a strong leader, strong man leader of a democracy had denied his loss in a democratic election, made consistent and constant baseless claims about fraud, if he fired military leaders, while his Foreign Minister talked about a smooth transition of the defeated leaders next term, even potentially in jest, any government looking at this situation, including ours, would be putting out statements urging calm and calling for the peaceful transition of power, for the rule of law, for the honoring of democratic norms and traditions.

Senator Booker: (04:07:10)
We’re seeing concrete consequences right now of President Trump’s rhetoric. We are actually in the midst of the fourth largest mass casualty event in American history. This is not just something that should not be treated with calm and normalcy, but we all, people who believe in this country, should be standing up and talking about the consequences.

Senator Booker: (04:07:32)
We have his political appointee, the General Service Administrator, refusing to designate Joe Biden as president-elect and provide the transition team the resources mandated by federal law.

Senator Booker: (04:07:44)
It was not that long ago that the 9/11 Commission said that one of the things that undermined our ability to meet the terroristic threats to our country happened because of a transition that was undermined, or excuse me, a transition that did not happen on the normal course. President Trump’s actions since election day should shock all of us. All of us who care about the welfare of our democracy. Who care about our norms. And I hope the platforms here can maintain the highest levels of vigilance.

Senator Booker: (04:08:16)
To the gentlemen before us today, I’d like to ask specifically, have you taken any steps to modify your platforms algorithms to ensure that blatantly false election disinformation posted by election officials and specifically the most powerful person in the United States, Donald Trump, isn’t amplified? That his posts that might get a lot of interactions, that are dead wrong, don’t somehow get boosted by your algorithms. If you could both respond to that as quickly as possible.

Mr. Zuckerberg: (04:08:55)
Senator, I’ll go first and I share your concern on this and I think it’s unfortunate that we had to put in place a policy around premature or false declarations of victory, but we had to do that. And we anticipated this back in September when we put the policy in place. And a lot of what we’re trying to do is help distribute reliable information, which we attach both to posts on the topic by President Trump or any of the other candidates or elected officials who were talking on the subject.

Mr. Zuckerberg: (04:09:34)
But more importantly, we put that reliable information, including about election results, at the top of Facebook and Instagram for everyone to see. And that supersedes what the algorithm or what newsfeed chooses to show.

Senator Booker: (04:09:48)
I appreciate that. I’d just like to get Jack’s. This is information I know Jack, if you want to just respond on the algorithm. Excuse me, Mr. Dorsey, if you want to respond about the algorithms too. Do you have a specific measures that you’re taking to prevent your algorithms from boosting false content?

Mr. Dorsey: (04:10:07)
Yes, so many of the labels did change how the algorithms amplify content.

Senator Booker: (04:10:16)
President Trump right now is spreading dangerous misinformation about our electoral process. It’s going on right now. And maybe if you guys, you gentlemen, would just cogently… Through this process, this ongoing process right now, are there steps you will be taking that you have not already delineated as we are going into what could be very dangerous waters, unprecedented waters, in this country? Is there any additional steps that you will be taking right now in the coming days or weeks to stop the further amplification and undermining of our democracy?

Senator Booker: (04:10:54)
We are heading potentially, depending upon the behavior of a president who’s shown himself to be erratic. Are there steps that you are prepared to take in the coming days and weeks to address this misinformation that we are seeing is coming in an unrelenting manner? [crosstalk 04:11:16].

Mr. Zuckerberg: (04:11:18)
This is unfortunately an eventuality that we planned for and we’ve taken a number of steps, not just including the fact checking program that we’ve set up broadly, but we stopped recommending all civic and political groups as an example, because of the risk of misinformation or harm growing there, we’ve temporarily paused all political ads because of a risk of potential abuse or inflaming tension or potential unrest or violence. And there are a number of other steps that we’ve taken like this as well, that we’ve done in other countries when there are risks of civil unrest and that we’ve shown have worked. I’d be happy to follow up in detail on all of the steps that we’re taking there.

Senator Booker: (04:12:07)
Thank you. Your team has been helpful. Mr. Dorsey, any new steps that you want to give me? And I’m now treading on the indulgence of the chairman, if you could be really cogent. I mean new steps.

Mr. Dorsey: (04:12:18)
We’re going to continue to remain vigilant around our enforcement of civil integrity. I think it’s really important that we stay agile and that we learn. So we need to learn about the effectiveness of this work and how to carry it forward.

Senator Booker: (04:12:31)
If the chairman would indulge me in one more sort of question to Mr. Zuckerberg. I was really pleased that the group Stop The Steal, which was a group formed on Facebook with disinformation trying to delegitimize the election. I was grateful that you all suspended that account after 24 hours. But I’m concerned about what lessons you’ve learned. Because clearly outside groups like the Center for Countering Digital Hate flagged that groups posts containing calls to violence hours before Facebook did. And I’m wondering what you all have learned about speed.

Senator Booker: (04:13:13)
There’s an old saying that a lie can travel halfway around the world while the truth is still putting its pants on. What does Facebook really factor in in terms of speed and trying to combat surges of disinformation about this group?

Senator Booker: (04:13:29)
Maybe another example, an additional sort of addendum to that question, Mr. Zuckerberg, Twitter, for example, permanently suspended, Mr. Bannon’s Twitter account, it suspended his show’s Twitter account, after he made horrendous steps about acts of violence against Dr. Fauci and FBI Director Wray.

Senator Booker: (04:13:53)
I guess I’m just simply asking why would Facebook not take the similar steps and similar stand? Mr. Zuckerberg, very cogently, could you talk about that speed issue? When your platforms diverge, I’m really wondering why one platform in Twitter saw that as a standard to remove, but you all did not follow in that decision.

Mr. Zuckerberg: (04:14:20)
Thanks, Senator. I’m happy to address both of those. On speed, you’re certainly right that that’s important. And part of what we focus on is figuring out which types of messages or things are going to go viral quickest because it’s not just about trying to get to everything within five hours for example, it’s actually much more important to get to the harms that are going viral quickly within an hour, even if some things that are probably not going to get much distribution at all might be deprioritized for a little bit longer.

Mr. Zuckerberg: (04:14:59)
I think making sure that we stay on top of what are the hashtags, what are the groups, what are the messages, who are the bad actors who are trying to spread this content? And as we see the threat evolving, we are typically able to evolve and move faster as well. So we’re very focused on that. [crosstalk 00:10:22].

Mr. Graham: (04:15:19)
Thank you, very much. Anything else [crosstalk 04:15:23].

Senator Booker: (04:15:25)
I just want to give you an amen [inaudible 00:04:15:28]. The second part of that question, I’d love to get on the record, but I just want to say to you, you mentioned earlier, I know you said that Chairman Graham will be chairman again, but I think you really said something really important earlier about the effects of social media platforms on our kids. I can cite many studies, like the University of Pittsburgh who said thar kids are on social media have about twice that the rates of eating disorders and image concerns.

Senator Booker: (04:15:54)
I just would really say, and I know that two gentlemen there would welcome the opportunity to come and discuss that perhaps with other experts, but there’s something really going on in terms of the self-esteem, wellbeing, and even flourishing of our children who are deeply affected by these platforms, whether you want to use a technical term like addiction or not, there’s enough evidence that these platforms and children’s engagement on them is causing a heightened levels of sort of a deleterious effect on their wellbeing. I’d love it if we could do such a hearing sometime soon.

Mr. Graham: (04:16:26)
We follow up into the every patient Senator Blackburn. Thank you very much.

Senator Blackburn: (04:16:30)
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate-

Mr. Graham: (04:16:31)
Last, but certainly not least.

Senator Blackburn: (04:16:32)
That is correct, and I appreciate that. And even though my colleague from New Jersey went twice his time, I am going to [crosstalk 00:11:44].

Mr. Graham: (04:16:43)
These are Senate minutes.

Senator Blackburn: (04:16:45)
Yes, they are Senate minutes. I will agree with my colleagues who have talked about the impact on children. The distribution of information that damages women and children, that leads to violence against women and children, human trafficking, the utilization of these platforms by pedophiles. This is something that we are going to continue to work on.

Senator Blackburn: (04:17:09)
When I was in the House we passed legislation to put more tools in the hands of local law enforcement to fight this. But you all at these social media platforms are going to have to do your part to work with us on this to protect our children.

Senator Blackburn: (04:17:27)
I will also say that we’re keeping an eye, and with each of you yesterday I talked about your financial component, Square there for Mr. Dorsey and Libra with Mr. Zuckerberg, and the application of these components to your sites. We’re talking about 2020 elections, but we’re also looking ahead to how we clean up some of what transpired before the 2022 elections.

Senator Blackburn: (04:17:58)
I think it’s fair to say two that, you all probably are now fully aware that there’s great frustration with Americans and with this committee, with the way you act invincible, the way your employees act as if you’re the invincible gods of the Silicon Valley. Facebook and Twitter, don’t get to be the last word in what counts as real news in this country, even though you’re beginning to conduct yourself as news publishers and distributors.

Senator Blackburn: (04:18:29)
My colleagues and I have asked you all repeatedly through the years for greater transparency and to accept responsibility. You’ve chosen to do neither. So it is going to be up to us to change existing law and to hold you to account on behalf of the American people.

Senator Blackburn: (04:18:50)
Section 230, the reforms that we’re going to put in place will take away this liability shield that you’ve turned into an opaque wall that you and your content moderators, whether they’re algorithmic or human beings or combinations, are hiding behind.

Senator Blackburn: (04:19:08)
The Online Freedom and Viewpoint Diversity Act, I thank Chairman Graham and Chairman Wicker for working with me on this. This is set up for a markup in this committee on Thursday.

Senator Blackburn: (04:19:22)
Mr. Zuckerberg, you were stating earlier that we needed to put some definition in place. We’re going to do that. We’re going to take away nebulous language, and we’re going to be specific, unlawful, inciting personal harm, inciting terrorism. We’re going to do that and clear that up for you.

Senator Blackburn: (04:19:44)
Mr. Zuckerberg, Facebook is more like a government than a traditional company, is a statement that you have made, and there’s a lot of power in that for you. So yes or no, on a couple of questions here. Does Facebook routinely sensor a user’s account at the behest of a foreign government? Yes or no.

Mr. Zuckerberg: (04:20:12)
Senator, I’m not sure if there’s anything in particular you’re referring to, but in general we don’t censor-

Senator Blackburn: (04:20:19)
Well, there is something in particular that I’m referring to and I’ll answer it. Yes, you’ve done that. You have 60 million users in Vietnam. Of course, this is a communist regime. Under the orders of the Vietnamese government, did Facebook shut down and ban the account of a Vietnamese dissident because he criticized the government’s land policy? Yes or no.

Mr. Zuckerberg: (04:20:46)
Senator, I’m not familiar with all the details of that, but I believe that we may have done that. And that in general, we try to follow the local laws of different countries we operate-

Senator Blackburn: (04:20:57)
Yes, you did. And you kept him off for three months. In Turkey, does Facebook have an anti-blasphemy policy where it will take down photos of the prophet Muhammad, if the Turkish government orders it to do so?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (04:21:13)
Senator again, we don’t have a policy against that, but we do follow-

Senator Blackburn: (04:21:19)
Well, the answer is yes.

Mr. Zuckerberg: (04:21:20)
Well, we follow local laws in the countries where we operate.

Senator Blackburn: (04:21:22)
The answer is yes. In Russia, under pressure from the Russian government, did Facebook take down a post advertising the rally in support of the dissident, Alexei Navalny. The answer is yes. I’ll help you with that.

Senator Blackburn: (04:21:38)
Do you believe it’s Facebook duty to comply with state sponsored censorship so it can keep operating, doing business, and selling ads in that country?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (04:21:49)
Senator, in general, we try to comply with the laws in every country where we operate and do business.

Senator Blackburn: (04:21:59)
I think that you prioritize profit over principle. When you look at these countries, and also in communist China, which they have banned their citizens from you, you can’t operate there.

Senator Blackburn: (04:22:14)
In China, Twitter, you have an opponent there. You’ve got a knockoff, Weibo, that is a Chinese Communist Party owned company. But your companies, even though they’re banned there, you’re still trying to do business in those countries. Mr. Dorsey, does Twitter do business with Huawei?

Mr. Dorsey: (04:22:34)
I don’t believe so, but we can follow up.

Senator Blackburn: (04:22:40)
I can answer it for you, sir. You helped launch Huawei’s Mate 30 Pro 5G and it is featured on Twitter’s marketing page website. How about Alibaba? You do business with Jack Ma’s company with their links to the Chinese Communist Party?

Mr. Dorsey: (04:23:01)
If by business, you mean allowing people to advertise on our platform-

Senator Blackburn: (04:23:05)
Your answer is yes. Mr. Zuckerberg, are you aware that last year China’s top internet regulator agreed to spend over $800,000 for the communist mouthpiece, the People’s Daily, and they did this so that they could advertise and promote China to the American people on Facebook?

Senator Blackburn: (04:23:26)
The point of all of this, and the answer to that, Mr. Zuckerberg, whether you’re aware or not, is you probably are, and you know that what they’re doing is gaining access to this market.

Senator Blackburn: (04:23:40)
This is why we’re going to keep a real close watch over what you all are doing with Libra and what you are doing with Square. Because we see what has happened. Ir’s important for us to protect people and to protect human rights.

Senator Blackburn: (04:23:59)
Let me move to election content and that monitoring, because we do have concerns about some of the things that happen there. Mr. Zuckerberg, let me ask you this, have you heard of the Trump Accountability Project?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (04:24:23)
Senator, I’m not familiar with that.

Senator Blackburn: (04:24:25)
That is a project that is an attempt to blacklist Americans who have served in the Trump administration and to prohibit them from gaining future employment. Now in communist China, in Putin’s Russia, in totalitarian states, the government regularly will issue a blacklist on their enemies. Enemies of the state are banned from getting a job and if their names fall on the blacklist, they are out.

Senator Blackburn: (04:24:55)
This seems disturbing that it would be happening here in this country. So Mr. Zuckerberg, do you agree with me there is seriously something wrong with an un-American blacklist tarring people from future employment simply because they belong to a different political party?

Mr. Zuckerberg: (04:25:22)
Senator, I generally agree that people should not be discriminated against because of political beliefs.

Senator Blackburn: (04:25:30)
Okay, that is a positive step. Now on Facebook, I wrote in a post, and I’m quoting, “The Trump Accountability Project is the epitome of the cancel culture. Our nation has long benefited from robust political debate and this effort to silence those who support our president is vile.”

Senator Blackburn: (04:25:56)
As you can tell from this statement, nothing was said about the election or the results, either directly or indirectly, but somehow I got slapped with your elections flag sticker. So what each of you need to realize, and you’ve heard it time and again today you, say you don’t keep lists. Obviously you have lists. Because there are some of us who are regularly censored and called down by your content moderators. Do we want to see these lists? Yes. How have you built these lists? We want to know.

Senator Blackburn: (04:26:46)
I would remind each of you, you are a Title 1 service, you are an information service. You are to be the new public square. But what you are doing with your power that you have derived because federal law gave you the ability to stand up and grow without being hit by lawsuits, you have used this power to run amuck. You have used it to silence conservatives. You have used it to build your lists. You have used this power to act like you hold all the power. That you can make these decisions. You have driven this cancel culture, because you have not called to account your moderators. You have refused to take responsibility for your employees and their actions, so thereby reigning you in on the issues of privacy, data security, content moderation, liability protections, defining who is a publisher in the virtual space, that is up to us, because you have proven you do not have the will, the strength, the ability, and you will not accept the responsibility to do it for yourselves. I yield my time.

Mr. Graham: (04:28:21)
Thank you very much, Senator Blackburn. To the two witnesses, you made it through. Thank you. Hopefully we’ll understand a little bit better about where the committee’s at and our concerns. I want to thank you for appearing. I wish we could do it in person, but I can understand why we had to do it remotely.

Mr. Graham: (04:28:41)
We will have more hearings coming up in the next Congress, I’m sure, to try to find ways to modify 230 to deal with some of the issues that were brought before the committee. I just want to thank you both and just say that you have been hugely successful in ways probably beyond your own imagination, and we’ve got problems around your platforms that have to be dealt with, and we will do it, hopefully, collaboratively.

Mr. Graham: (04:29:08)
The bottom line is we want to make these platforms better. We want to continue to grow this part of our society responsibly. And right now, without regulation or without lawsuit is pretty much becoming the wild wild west. And I appreciate both of you for being willing to try to find ways to come up with systems that will ensure more transparency, more choice, and more confidence.

Senator Blumenthal: (04:29:40)
Mr. Chairman.

Mr. Graham: (04:29:40)
Yes, sir?

Senator Blumenthal: (04:29:42)
If I may just add my thanks to the witnesses and also to you for having this hearing. I think there’s one certainty here, which is that Mr. Zuckerberg and Mr. Dorsey will be back. They will be back in the next session of Congress. I hope that joining them will be Google and Amazon and others who should be held similarly accountable.

Mr. Graham: (04:30:09)
I agree. To these two companies, thank you for stepping up to the plate, and to the other companies, you need to be here also.

Senator Blumenthal: (04:30:17)
I, again, thank them. And we need to have greater accountability by reducing the shield. It’s now nearly complete. And I want to thank you, Senator Graham, for working with me on the EARN IT Act, a number of our colleagues have raised the problem with child sexual abuse material. Best way to counter it is to act. We really are serious about all this rhetoric and the jumble of grievances that we’ve heard. Let’s begin the journey with a single step. We can do it through the EARN IT Act. It’s on the floor of the United States Senate having been reported unanimously out of this committee. Let’s have a vote.

Mr. Graham: (04:31:02)
Agreed. Change is going to come. Thank you. The hearing is adjourned.

Chairman Wicker: (00:00)
Internet freedom has been the hallmark of a thriving digital economy in the United States. This success has largely been attributed to a light touch regulatory framework, and to Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, often referred to as the 26 words that created the internet. There’s little dispute that Section 230 played a critical role in the early development and growth of online platforms. Section 230 gave content providers protection from liability, to remove and moderate content that they or their users considered to be “obscene, lewd, lascivious, filthy, excessively violent, harassing or otherwise objectionable.” This liability shield has been pivotal in protecting online platforms from endless and potentially ruinous lawsuits. But it has also given these internet platforms the ability to control, stifle and even censor content in whatever manner meets their respective standards.

Chairman Wicker: (01:07)
The time has come for that free pass to end. After 24 years of Section 230 being the law of the land much has changed. The internet is no longer an emerging technology. The companies before us today are no longer scrappy startups, operating out of a garage or a dorm room. They are now among the world’s largest corporations, wielding immense power in our economy, culture and public discourse. Immense power. The applications they have created are connecting the world in unprecedented ways, far beyond what lawmakers could have imagined three decades ago. These companies are controlling the overwhelming flow of news and information that the public can share and access. One noteworthy example occurred just two weeks ago, after our subpoenas were unanimously approved. The New York Post, the country’s fourth largest newspaper ran a story revealing communications between Hunter Biden and a Ukrainian official.

Chairman Wicker: (02:15)
The report alleged that Hunter Biden facilitated a meeting with his father, Joe Biden, who was then vice president of the United States. Almost immediately, both Twitter and Facebook took steps to block or limit access to the story. Facebook, according to its policy communications manager began “reducing its distribution on the platform,” pending a third-party check, a third-party fact check. Twitter went beyond that, blocking all users, including the House Judiciary Committee from sharing the article on feeds and through direct messages. Twitter even locked the New York Post account entirely, claiming the story included hacked materials and was potentially harmful. It is worth noting that both Twitter and Facebook’s aversion to hacked materials has not always been so stringent. For example when the president’s tax returns were illegally leaked, neither company acted to restrict access to that information. Similarly, the now discredited Steele dossier was widely shared without fact checking or disclaimers. This apparent double standard would be appalling under normal circumstances, but the fact that selective censorship is occurring in the midst of the 2020 election cycle dramatically amplifies the power wielded by Facebook and Twitter. Google recently generated its own controversy when it was revealed that the company threatened to cut off several conservative websites, including The Federalist from their ad platform. Make no mistake for sites that rely heavily on advertising revenue for their bottom line, being blocked from Google services or demonetized can be a death sentence. According to Google the offense of these websites was posting user submitted comment sections that included objectionable content. But Google’s own platform, YouTube posts user submitted comment sections for every video uploaded.

Chairman Wicker: (04:44)
It seems that Google is far more zealous in policing conservative sites than its own YouTube platform for the same types of offensive and outrageous language. It is ironic that when the subject is net neutrality, technology companies including Facebook, Google, and Twitter have warned about the grave threat of blocking or throttling the flow of information on the internet. Meanwhile, these same companies are actively blocking and throttling the distribution of content on their own platforms and are using protections under Section 30 to do it. Is it any surprise that voices on the right are complaining about hypocrisy or even worse anti-democratic election interference? These recent incidents are only the latest in a long trail of censorship and suppression of conservative voices on the internet. Reasonables or observers are left to wonder whether big tech firms are obstructing the flow of information to benefit one political ideology or agenda.

Chairman Wicker: (05:55)
My concern is that these platforms have become powerful arbiters of what is true and what content users can access. The American public gets little insight into the decision-making process when content is moderated, and users have a little recourse when they are censored or restricted. I hope we can all agree that the issues the committee will discuss today are ripe for thorough examination and action. I have introduced legislation to clarify the intent of Section 230’s liability protections and increase the accountability of companies who engage in content moderation. The Online Freedom and Viewpoint Diversity Act would make important changes to right-size the liability shield, and make clear what type of content moderation is protected. This legislation would address the challenges we have discussed while still leaving fundamentals of Section 230 in place.

Chairman Wicker: (06:56)
Although some of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle have characterized this as a purely partisan exercise, there is strong bipartisan support for reviewing Section 230. In fact, both presidential candidates, Trump and Biden have proposed repealing Section 230 in its entirety, a position I have not yet embraced. I hope we can focus today’s discussion on the issues that affect all Americans, protecting a true diversity of viewpoints and free discourse is central to our way of life. I look forward to hearing from today’s witnesses about what they are doing to promote transparency, accountability and fairness in their content moderation processes. I thank each of them for cooperating with us in the scheduling of this testimony. I now turn to my friend and ranking member Senator Cantwell for her opening remarks, Senator Cantwell.

Maria Cantwell: (07:56)
… Beautiful state of Washington in my Senate office here in Washington, DC. It shows the various ecosystems of the state of Washington, which we very much appreciate. I bring that up because just recently the Seattle area was named the number one STEM economy in the United States, that is the most STEM workforce in the United States of America. These issues about how we harness the information age to work for us and not against us is something that we deal with every day of the week, and we want to have discussion and discourse. I believe that discussion and discourse today should be broader than just 230. There are issues of privacy that our committee has addressed and issues of how to make sure there is a free and competitive news market. I noticed today we’re not calling in the NAB or the publishers association asking them why they haven’t printed or reprinted information that you allude to in your testimony that you wish was more broadly distributed.

Maria Cantwell: (09:17)
To have the competition in the news market is to have a diversity of voices and diversity of opinion. In my report just recently released, we show that true competition really does help perfect information, both for our economy and for the health of our democracy. I do look forward to discussing these issues today. What I do not want today’s hearing to be is a chilling effect on the very important aspects of making sure that hate speech or misinformation related to health and public safety are allowed to remain on the internet. We all know what happened in 2016. We had reports from the FBI, our intelligence agencies and a bipartisan Senate committee that concluded in 2016 that Russian operatives did, masquerading as Americans use targeted advertisements, intentionally falsified news articles, self-generated content, social media platform tools to interact and attempt to deceive tens of millions of social media users in the United States.

Maria Cantwell: (10:26)
Director of National Intelligence then, Republican Senator former Senator Dan Coats said in July 2018, “The warning lights are blinking red, that the digital infrastructure that serves our country is literally under attack.” I take this issue very seriously and I’ve had for many years, that is making sure as special counsel Mueller indicated 12 Russian intelligence officers hacked the DNC and various information, detailing phishing attacks into our state election boards, online personas and stealing documents. When we had a subcommittee hearing and former Bush Homeland Security Director, Michael Chertoff testified, I asked him point blank. Because there were some of our colleagues who were saying, you know what, everybody does election interference. I asked him if election interference was something that we did or should be encouraging. He responded that he agreed, “Interfering with infrastructure or elections is completely off limits and unacceptable.”

Maria Cantwell: (11:37)
That is why I believe that we should be working aggressively internationally to sanction anybody that interferes in our elections. I hope today that we will get a report from the witnesses on exactly what they have been doing to clamp down on election interference. I hope that they will tell us what kind of hate speech and misinformation that they have taken off the books. It is no secret that there are various state actors who are doing all they can to take a whack at democracy. To try to say that our way of government, that our way of life, that our way of freedom of speech and information is somehow not as good as we have made it being the beacon of democracy around the globe. I am not going to let or tolerate people to continue to whack at our election process, our vote by mail system, or the ability of tech platforms, security companies, our law enforcement entities, and the collective community to speak against misinformation and hate speech.

Maria Cantwell: (12:44)
We have to show that the United States of America stands behind our principles, and that our principles do also transfer to the responsibility of communication online. As my colleagues will know, we’ve all been through this in the past. That is why you Mr. Chairman and I and Senators Rosen and Thune sponsored the HACKED Act, that is to help increase the security and cybersecurity of our nation, and create a workforce that can fight against that. That is why I joined with Van Hollen and Rubio on the DETER Act, especially in establishing sanctions against Russian election interference, and to continue to make sure that we build the infrastructure of tomorrow. I know that some people think that these issues are out of sight and out of mind, I guarantee you they’re not. There are actors who have been at this for a long time. They wanted to destabilize Eastern Europe, and we became the second act when they tried to destabilize our democracy here by sewing disinformation.

Maria Cantwell: (13:49)
I want to show them that we in the United States do have fair elections. We do have a fair process. We are going to be that beacon of democracy. I hope that as we talk about 230 today, and we hear from the witnesses on the progress that they have made in making sure that disinformation is not allowed online, that we will also consider ways to help build and strengthen that. That is to say, as some of those who are testifying today, what can we do on transparency, on reporting, on analysis? Yes I think you’re going to hear a lot about algorithms today, and the kind of oversight that we all want to make sure that we can continue to have a diversity of voices in the United States of America, both online and offline. I do want to say though, Mr. Chairman, I am concerned about the vertical nature of news and information. Today I expect to ask the witnesses about the fact that I believe they create a choke point for local news.

Maria Cantwell: (14:58)
The local news media have lost 70% of their revenue over the last decade, and we have lost thousands, thousands of journalistic jobs that are important. It was even amazing to me that the sequence of events yesterday had me being interviewed by someone at a newspaper who was funded by a joint group of the Knight Foundation and probably Facebook funds, to interview me about the fact that the news media and broadcast has fallen on such a decline because of loss of revenue as they’ve made the transition to the digital age. Somehow, we have to come together to show that the diversity of voices that local news represent need to be dealt with fairly when it comes to the advertising market. That too much control in the advertising market puts a foot on their ability to continue to move forward and grow in the digital age. Just as other forms of media have made the transition and yes still making the transition, we want to have a very healthy and dynamic news media across the United States of America.

Maria Cantwell: (16:09)
I plan to ask the witnesses today about that. I wish we had time to go into depth on privacy and privacy issues, but Mr. Chairman you know and so does Senator Thune and other colleagues of the committee on my side, how important it is that we protect American consumers on privacy issues. That we’re not done with this work, that there is much to do to bring consensus in the United States on this important issue. I hope that as we do have time or in the follow-up to these questions, that we can ask the witnesses about that today.

Maria Cantwell: (16:43)
But make no mistake gentlemen, thank you for joining us, but this is probably a one of many, many, many conversations that we will have about all of these issues. But again, let’s harness the information age as you are doing, but let’s also make sure that consumers are fairly treated, and that we are making it work for all of us, to guarantee our privacy, our diversity of the voices, and upholding our democratic principles and the fact that we, the United States of America stand for freedom of information and freedom of the press. Thank you.

Chairman Wicker: (17:19)
Thank you Senator Cantwell, and certainly you’re correct that this will not be the last hearing with regard to the subject matter. I also appreciate you mentioning your concerns which I share about local journalism. At this point, we are about to receive testimony from our witnesses. Before we begin that, let me remind members that today’s hearing will provide senators with seven minute rounds with a round of seven minute questioning rather than the usual five minutes that we have done in the past. At seven minutes the gavel will, let’s say at a few seconds after seven minutes the gavel will will go down. Even so, this hearing could last some three hours and 42 minutes at that rate.

Chairman Wicker: (18:17)
This will be an extensive and lengthy hearing. Members are advised that we will adhere closely to that seven minute limit, and also shortly before noon at the request of one of our witnesses, we will take a short 10 minute break. With that, we welcome our panel of witnesses, thank them for their testimony, and ask them to give their opening statements, summarizing them in some five minutes. The entire statement will be added at this point in the record, and we will begin with Mr. Jack Dorsey of Twitter. Sir, do you hear us? We have contact with you.

Jack Dorsey: (19:04)
Yes can you hear me?

Chairman Wicker: (19:06)
Yes. Thank you for being with us, and you are now recognized for five minutes sir.

Jack Dorsey: (19:11)
Okay. Well, thank you members of the Commerce Committee for the opportunity to speak with the American people about Twitter and Section 230. My remarks will be brief so we can get to questions. Section 230 is the most important law protecting internet speech. Removing Section 230 will remove speech from the internet. Section 230 gave internet services two important tools. The first provides immunity from liability for users content. The second provides Good Samaritan protections for content moderation and removal, even of constitutionally protected speech, as long as it’s done in good faith. That concept of good faith is what’s being challenged by many of you today. Some of you don’t trust we’re acting in good faith. That’s the problem I want to focus on solving. How do services like Twitter earn your trust? How do we ensure more choice in the market if we don’t?

Jack Dorsey: (20:08)
There are three solutions we’d like to propose to address the concerns raised, all focused on services that decide to moderate or remove content. It could be expansions to Section 230, new legislative frameworks, or commitment to industry-wide self-regulation best practices. The first is requiring a services moderation process to be published. How are cases reported and reviewed? How are decisions made? What tools are used to enforce? Publishing answers to questions like these will make our process more robust and accountable to the people we serve. The second is requiring a straightforward process to appeal decisions made by humans or by algorithms. This ensures people can let us know when we don’t get it right, so that we can fix any mistakes and make our processes better in the future.

Jack Dorsey: (21:02)
Finally, much of the content people see today is determined by algorithms, with very little visibility into how they choose what they show. We took a first step in making this more transparent by building a button to turn off our home timeline algorithms. It’s a good start, but we’re inspired by the market approach suggested by Dr. Stephen Wolfram before this committee in June 2019. Enabling people to choose algorithms created by third parties to rank and filter the content is an incredibly energizing idea that’s in reach. Requiring one, moderation process and practices to be published.

Jack Dorsey: (21:41)
Two, a straightforward process to appeal decisions, and three best efforts around algorithmic choice are suggestions to address the concerns we all have going forward. They’re all achievable in short order. It’s critical as we consider these solutions we optimize for new startups and independent developers. Doing so ensures a level playing field that increases the probability of competing ideas to help solve problems. We mustn’t entrench the largest companies any further. Thank you for the time, and I look forward to a productive discussion to dig into these and other ideas.

Chairman Wicker: (22:22)
Thank you very much Mr Dorsey. We now call on Mr Sundar Pichai. You are recognized for five minutes sir.

Sundar Pichai: (22:34)
Chairman Wicker, ranking member Cantwell, and distinguished members of the committee. Thank you for the opportunity to appear before you today. The internet has been a powerful force for good for the past three decades. Has radically improved access to information. Whether it’s connecting Americans to jobs, getting critical updates to people in times of crisis, or helping a parent find answers to questions like how can I get my baby to sleep through the night? At the same time, people everywhere can use their voices to share new perspectives, express themselves and reach broader audiences than ever before. Whether you’re a barber in Mississippi or a home renovator in Indiana, you can share a video and build a global fan base and a successful business right from your living room. In this way, the internet has been one of the world’s most important equalizers, information can be shared and knowledge can flow from anyone to anywhere.

Sundar Pichai: (23:36)
The same low barriers to entry also make it possible for bad actors to cause harm. As a company whose mission is to organize the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful, Google is deeply conscious of both the opportunities and risks the internet creates. I’m proud that Google’s information services like search, Gmail, maps and photos provide thousands of dollars a year in value to the average American for free. We feel a deep responsibility to keep the people who use our products safe and secure, and have long invested in innovative tools to prevent abuse of our services. When it comes to privacy, we are committed to keeping your information safe, treating it responsibly and putting you in control. We continue to make privacy improvements like the changes I announced earlier this year to keep less data by default, and support the creation of comprehensive federal privacy laws.

Sundar Pichai: (24:38)
We are equally committed to protecting the quality and integrity of information on our platforms, and supporting our democracy in a nonpartisan way. As just one timely example, our information panels on Google and YouTube inform users about where to vote and how to register. We’ve also taken many steps to raise up high quality journalism. From sending 24 billion visits to news websites globally every month, to our recent one billion dollar investment in partnerships with news publishers. Since our founding we’ve been deeply committed to the freedom of expression. We also feel a responsibility to protect people who use our products from harmful content, and to be transparent about how we do that. That’s why we set and publicly disclose clear guidelines for our products and platforms, which we enforce impartially.

Sundar Pichai: (25:33)
We recognize that people come to our services with a broad spectrum of perspectives, and we are dedicated to building products that are helpful to users of all backgrounds and viewpoints. Let me be clear, we approach our work without political bias full stop. To do otherwise would be contrary to both our business interests and our mission, which compels us to make information accessible to every type of person, no matter where they live or what they believe. Of course, our ability to provide access to a wide range of information is only possible because of existing legal frameworks, like Section 230. The United States adopted Section 230 early in the internet’s history, and it has been foundational to US leadership in the tech sector. It protects the freedom to create and share content, while supporting the ability of platforms and services of all sizes to responsibly address harmful content.

Sundar Pichai: (26:33)
We appreciate that this committee has put great thought into how platforms should address content, and we look forward to having these conversations. As you think about how to shape policy in this important area, I would urge the committee to be very thoughtful about any changes to Section 230, and to be very aware of the consequences those changes might have on businesses and customers. At the end of the day, we all share the same goal, free access to information for everyone and responsible protections for people and their data. We support legal frameworks that achieve these goals. I look forward to engaging with you today about these important issues and answering your questions. Thank you.

Chairman Wicker: (27:16)
Thank you very much. Mr. Pichai. Members should be advised at this point that we are unable to make contact with Mr. Mark Zuckerberg. We’re told by Facebook staff that he is alone and attempting to connect with this hearing, and that they are requesting a five minute recess at this point to see if that connection can be made. I think this is a most interesting development, but we’re going to accommodate the request of the Facebook employees and see if within five minutes we can make contact and proceed. At this point I declare a five minute recess (silence). I call the hearing back into order, and we’re told that in less than five minutes we have success. Mr. Zuckerberg I’m told that we have both video and audio connection. Are you there sir?

Mark Zuckerberg: (30:38)
Yes I am. Can you hear me?

Chairman Wicker: (30:40)
I can hear you fine. You’re now recognized for five minutes to summarize your testimony. Welcome.

Mark Zuckerberg: (30:46)
All right. Thank you chairman. I was able to hear the other opening statements. I was just having a hard time connecting my myself. All right so-

Chairman Wicker: (30:55)
I know the feeling Mr. Zuckerberg.

Mark Zuckerberg: (30:58)
Chairman Wicker, ranking member Cantwell and members of the committee. Every day millions of Americans use the internet to share their experiences and discuss issues that matter to them. Setting the rules for online discourse is an important challenge for our society, and there are principles at stake that go beyond any one platform. How do we balance free expression and safety? How do we define what is dangerous? Who should decide? I don’t believe that private companies should be making so many decisions about these issues by themselves. In Facebook, we often have to balance competing equities. Sometimes the best approach from a safety or security perspective isn’t the best for privacy or free expression. We work with experts across society to strike the right balance. We don’t always get it right, but we try to be fair and consistent. The reality is that people have very different ideas and views about where the lines should be.

Mark Zuckerberg: (31:53)
Democrats often say that we don’t remove enough content, and Republicans often say we remove too much. I expect that we’ll hear some of those criticisms today. The fact that both sides criticize us doesn’t mean that we’re getting this right, but it does mean that there are real disagreements about where the limits of online speech should be. I think that’s understandable. People can reasonably disagree about where to draw the lines. That’s a hallmark of democratic societies, especially here in the US with our strong First Amendment tradition. But it strengthens my belief that when a private company is making these calls, we need a more accountable process that people feel is legitimate and that gives platforms certainty. At Facebook we publish our standards and issue quarterly reports on the content that we take down. We launched an independent oversight board that can overturn our decisions, and we’ve committed to an audit of our content reports.

Mark Zuckerberg: (32:52)
But I believe Congress has a role to play to in order to give people confidence that the process is carried out in a way that balances society’s deeply held values appropriately, and that’s why I’ve called for regulation. Right now the discussion is focused on Section 230. Some say that ending 230 would solve all of the internet’s problems. Others say it would end the internet as we know it. From our perspective, Section 230 does two basic things. First, it encourages free expression, which is fundamentally important. Without 230 platforms could potentially be held liable for everything that people say. They’d face much greater pressure to take down more content to avoid legal risk. Second, it allows platforms to moderate content.

Mark Zuckerberg: (33:40)
Without 230 platforms could face liability for basic moderation like removing harassment that impacts the safety of their communities. Now there’s a reason why America leads in technology. Section 230 helped create the internet as we know it. It has helped new ideas get built and our companies to spread American values around the world, and we should maintain this advantage. But the internet has also evolved. I think that Congress should update the law to make sure that it’s working as intended. One important place to start would be making content moderation systems more transparent. Another would be to separate good actors from bad actors, by making sure that companies can’t hide behind Section 230 to avoid responsibility for intentionally facilitating illegal activity on their platforms.

Mark Zuckerberg: (34:32)
We’re open to working with Congress on these ideas and more. I hope the changes that you make will ring true to the spirit and intent of 230. There are consequential choices to make here, and it’s important that we don’t prevent the next generation of ideas from being built. Now, although this hearing is about content policy, I also want to cover our election preparedness work. Voting ends in six days, we’re in the midst of a pandemic, and there are ongoing threats to the integrity of this election. Since 2016 Facebook has-

Mark Zuckerberg: (35:03)
Of this election. Since 2016, Facebook has made major investments to stop foreign interference. We’ve hired more than 35,000 people to work on safety and security. We’ve disrupted more than a hundred networks coming from Russia, Iran, and China, and more. They were misleading people about who they are and what they’re doing, including three just this week. This is an extraordinary election and we’ve updated our policies to reflect that. We’re showing people reliable information about voting and results, and we’ve strengthened our ads and misinformation policies. We’re also running the largest voting information campaign in U.S. history. We estimate that we’ve helped more than 4.4 million people register to vote, and a hundred thousand people volunteer to be poll workers. Candidates on both sides continue to use our platforms to reach voters and people are rightly focused on the role that technology companies play in our elections. I’m proud of the work that we’ve done to support our democracy. This is a difficult period but I believe that America will emerge stronger than ever and we’re focused on doing our part to help.

Chairman Wicker: (36:15)
Well, thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Zuckerberg, and thanks to all of our witnesses. We will now. I think we’re supposed to set the clock to seven minutes, and I see five minutes up there, but somehow we’ll keep time, so there we are. Okay, well, thank you all.

Chairman Wicker: (36:35)
Let me start then with Mr. Dorsey. Mr. Dorsey, the committee has compiled dozens and dozens of examples of conservative content being censored and suppressed by your platforms over the last four years. I entered these examples into the record on October 1st when the committee voted unanimously to issue the subpoenas, and thank you all three again for working with us on the scheduling, alleviating the necessity for actually exercising the subpoenas.

Chairman Wicker: (37:19)
Mr. Dorsey, your platform allows foreign dictators to post propaganda, typically without restriction. Yet you routinely restrict the President of the United States. And here’s an example. In March, a spokesman for the Chinese Communist Party falsely accused the U.S. military of causing the coronavirus epidemic. He tweeted, “CDC was caught on the spot. When did patient zero begin in the U.S.? How many people are infected? What are the names of the hospitals? It might be the U.S. Army who brought the epidemic to Wuhan and on and on.” After this tweet was up for some two months, Twitter added a fact check label to this tweet, after being up for two months. However, when President Trump tweeted about how mail-in ballots are vulnerable to fraud, a statement that I subscribe to and agree with, and a statement that is in fact true, Twitter immediately imposed fact check label on that tweet.

Chairman Wicker: (38:35)
Mr. Dorsey, how does a claim by Chinese Communists that the U.S. military is to blame for COVID remain up for two months without a fact check, and the President’s tweet about security mail-in ballots get labeled instantly?

Jack Dorsey: (38:53)
Well, first and foremost, we, as you mentioned, we did label that tweet. As we think about enforcement, we consider severity of potential offline harm, and we act as quickly as we can. We have taken action against tweets from world leaders all around the world, including the President, and we did take action on that tweet because we saw it, we saw the confusion it might encourage, and we labeled it accordingly, and the goal with our labeling-

Chairman Wicker: (39:30)
You’re speaking of the President’s tweet.

Jack Dorsey: (39:32)
Yes.

Chairman Wicker: (39:33)
Okay.

Jack Dorsey: (39:33)
The goal of our labeling is to provide more context to connect the dots so that people can have more information so they can make decisions for themselves. We’ve created these policies recently. We are enforcing them. There are certainly things that we can do much faster, but generally we believe that the policy was enforced in a timely manner and in the right regard.

Chairman Wicker: (40:03)
And yet you seem to have no objection to a tweet by the Chinese Communist Party saying the U.S. Army brought the epidemic to Wuhan.

Jack Dorsey: (40:16)
Well, we did, and we labeled that tweet providing more information.

Chairman Wicker: (40:20)
It took you two months to do so, is that correct?

Jack Dorsey: (40:23)
I’m not sure of the exact timeframe, but we can get back to you on that.

Chairman Wicker: (40:26)
So you’re going to get back to us as to how a tweet from the Chinese Communist Party falsely accusing the U.S. military of causing the coronavirus epidemic was left up for two months with no comment from Twitter, while the President of the United States making a statement about being careful about ballot security with the mail was labeled immediately.

Chairman Wicker: (40:59)
I have a tweet here from Mr. Ajit Pai. Mr. Ajit Pai is the Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission. And he recounts some four tweets by the Iranian dictator, Ayatollah Ali Khomeini, which Twitter did not place a public label on. All four of them glorified violence. The first tweet says this, and I quote each time, “The Zionist regime is a deadly cancerous growth and a detriment to the region. It will undoubtedly be uprooted and destroyed.” That’s the first tweet. The second tweet, “The only remedy until the removal of the Zionist regime is firm armed resistance.” Again, left up without comment by Twitter. The third, “The struggle to free Palestine is Jihad in the way of God.” I quote that in part for the sake of time. And number four, “We will support and assist any nation or any group anywhere who opposes and fights the Zionist regime.”

Chairman Wicker: (42:24)
I would simply point out that these tweets are still up, Mr. Dorsey, and how is it that they are acceptable to be there? I’ll ask unanimous consent to enter this tweet from Ajit Pai in the record at this point. That’ll be done without objection. How, Mr. Dorsey, is that acceptable based on your policies at Twitter?

Jack Dorsey: (42:55)
We believe it’s important for everyone to hear from global leaders, and we have policies around world leaders. We want to make sure that we are respecting their right to speak and to publish what they need. But if there’s a violation of our terms of service, we want to label it and-

Chairman Wicker: (43:18)
They’re still up. Do they violate your terms of service, Mr. Dorsey?

Jack Dorsey: (43:21)
We did not find those to violate our terms of service because we considered them saber rattling, which is part of the speech of world leaders in concert with other countries. Speech against our own people or countries on citizens, we believe is different and can cause more immediate harm.

Chairman Wicker: (43:47)
Very telling information. Mr. Dorsey. Thank you very much. Senator Cantwell, you are recognized.

Speaker 1: (43:53)
I think I’m deferring to our colleague, Senator Peters, just because of timing and situation for him.

Chairman Wicker: (44:03)
All right. Senator Peters, are you there?

Senator Peters: (44:05)
I am here. I am here.

Chairman Wicker: (44:07)
Sir, you are recognized for seven minutes.

Senator Peters: (44:10)
Well, thank you, Mr. Chairman, and ranking member Cantwell, appreciate your deferral to me. I certainly appreciate that a consideration a great deal. I also want to thank each of our panelists here today for coming forward and being a witness, and appreciate all of you accommodating your schedule so that we could have this hearing. My first question is for Mr. Zuckerberg. And I want to start off by saying how much I appreciated our opportunity last night to speak at length on a number of issues. And as I told you last night, I appreciate the Facebook’s efforts to assist law enforcement to disrupt a plot to kidnap and to hold a sham trial and kill our Governor, Governor Whitmer.

Senator Peters: (44:56)
The individuals in that case apparently used Facebook for a broad recruiting effort, but then they actually planned the specifics of that operation off of your platform. My question is when users reach the level of radicalization that violates your community standards, you often will ban those groups and then drive them off to other platforms. Those platforms tend to have less transparency and oversight. But the issue that I’d like you to address is for those individuals that remain on your platform, they are often far down the path of radicalization, but they are definitely looking for an outlet. And I understand that Facebook has recently adopted a strategy to redirect users who are searching, for example, for election misinformation. But it doesn’t seem that policy applies to budding violent extremists.

Senator Peters: (45:52)
Mr. Zuckerberg, do you believe that your platform has a responsibility to off-ramp users who are on the path to radicalization by violent extremist groups?

Mark Zuckerberg: (46:04)
Senator, thanks for the question. I think this is very important, and my understanding is that we actually do a little of what you’re talking about here. If people are searching for, and I think for example, white supremacist organizations of which we ban those, we treat them as terrorist organizations, not only are we not going to show that content, but I think we try to, where we can, highlight information that would be helpful. And I think we try to work with experts on that. I can follow up and get you more information on the scope of those activities and when we invoke that. But I certainly agree with the spirit of the question that this is a good idea and something that we should continue pursuing and perhaps expand.

Senator Peters: (46:53)
Well, I appreciate those comments. I’m the ranking member on Senate Homeland Security Committee, and what we’re seeing is a rise of violent extremist groups, which is very troubling. And certainly we need to work very closely with you as to how do we disrupt this kind of radicalization, especially for folks that are using your platform. So I appreciate the opportunity to work further.

Senator Peters: (47:13)
And as we talked about last night, you asserted that Facebook is proactively working with law enforcement now to disrupt some of these real world violent attempts that stem from some of that activity that originated your platform. Could you tell me specifically how many threats that you have proactively referred to local or state law enforcement prior to being approached for a preservation request?

Mark Zuckerberg: (47:41)
Senator, I don’t know the number off the top of my head, so I can follow up with you on that. But it is increasingly common that our systems are able to detect when there’s potential issues. And over the last four years in particular, we’ve built closer partnerships with law enforcement and the intelligence community to be able to share those kind of signals. So we’re doing more of that, including in the case that you mentioned before, around the attempted kidnapping of Governor Whitmer. We identified that as a signal to the FBI. I think it was about six months ago when we started seeing some suspicious activity on our platform. And there’s certainly, that’s part of our routine and how we operate.

Senator Peters: (48:30)
Well, Mr. Zuckerberg, discovery tools and recommendation algorithms that your platforms use does serve up potentially extremist content based on the user profiles of folks. As we seek to understand why membership in these extremist groups is rising, I would hope that your companies are right now engaging in some forensic analysis of membership, once you take down an extremist group, to take a look at how that happened on your platform. It’s certainly going to better inform us as to how we can disrupt this type of recruitment into extremists groups.

Senator Peters: (49:05)
My question for you though, is that in 2016, you said, and this was apparently an internal Facebook internal document that was reported by the Wall Street Journal, that said that 64% of members of violent groups became members because of your platform’s recommendation. And I’ll quote from that report that was reported in the Wall Street Journal. It said, “Our recommendation systems grow the problem.” That’s clearly very concerning. And I know in response to that report in 2016, you had made changes to your policies. You made changes to some of the algorithms that existed at that time. My question is, have you seen a reduction in your platform’s facilitation of extremist group recruitment since those policies were changed?

Mark Zuckerberg: (49:52)
Senator, I’m not familiar with that specific study, but I agree with the concern, and making sure that our recommendation systems for what groups people are given the opportunity to join is certainly one important vector for addressing this issue. And we’ve taken a number of steps here including disqualifying groups from being included in our recommendation system at all if they routinely are being used to share misinformation, or if they have content violations, or a number of other criteria. So I’m quite focused on this. I agree with where you’re going with that question. I don’t have any data today on the real-world impact of that yet, but I think that addressing this upstream is very important.

Senator Peters: (50:49)
So I appreciate you agreeing with that and that we need more data. Is it that you don’t have the data just at the top of your head or that it doesn’t exist?

Mark Zuckerberg: (51:00)
Well Senator, certainly the former and potentially the latter as well. I think it probably takes some time after we make these changes to be able to measure the impact of it. And I’m not aware of what studies are going on into this. It seems like the type of thing that one would want, not just internal Facebook researchers to work on, both are potentially a collaboration with independent academics as well.

Senator Peters: (51:33)
Thank you, Mr. Zuckerberg, and thank you-

Mark Zuckerberg: (51:34)
Thank you.

Senator Peters: (51:35)
Senator Peters. Senator Gardner has also asked to go out of order, and Senator Thune has graciously deferred to him. So Senator Gardner, you are recognized for seven minutes, sir.

Senator Gardner: (51:53)
Well, thank you Mr. Chairman, and thank you Senator Thune for sharing your time or at least deferring your time to me, and thank you, Mr. Zuckerberg, Mr. Pichai, thank you very much. And Mr. Dorsey, thank you for being here.

Senator Gardner: (52:07)
Mr. Dorsey, I’m going to direct these first questions to you. Mr. Dorsey, do you believe that the Holocaust really happened? Yes or no.

Jack Dorsey: (52:15)
Yes.

Senator Gardner: (52:16)
So you would agree that someone who says the Holocaust may not have happened is spreading misinformation? Yes or no.

Jack Dorsey: (52:24)
Yes.

Senator Gardner: (52:25)
I appreciate your answers on this, but they surprise me and probably a lot of other Coloradans and Americans, after all Iran’s Ayatollah has done exactly this, questioning the Holocaust, and yet his tweets remain unflagged on Twitter’s platform. You and I agree that moderating your platform makes sense in certain respects. We don’t want the next terrorist finding inspiration on Twitter, or any certain, any platform for that matter. But you’ve also decided to moderate certain content from influential world leaders. And I’d like to understand your decisions to do so a little bit better. Can you name any other instance of Twitter hiding or deleting a tweet from heads of state?

Jack Dorsey: (53:10)
Not off the top of my head, but we have many examples across world leaders around the world.

Senator Gardner: (53:14)
Would you be willing to provide a list of those?

Jack Dorsey: (53:17)
Absolutely.

Senator Gardner: (53:18)
I know we’ve established and we agreed content moderation can have certain upsides like combating terrorism, but Twitter has chosen to approach content moderation from the standpoint of combating misinformation as well. So it’s strange to me that you’ve flagged the tweets from the President, but haven’t hidden the Ayatollah’s tweets on Holocaust denial or calls to wipe Israel off the map. And that you can’t recall off the top of your head hidden or deleted tweets from other world leaders, I would appreciate that list. I think it’s important that we all hear that. So that brings my next question to the front. Does Twitter maintain a formal list of certain accounts that you actively monitor for misinformation?

Jack Dorsey: (54:00)
No, and we don’t have a policy against misinformation. We have a policy against misinformation in three categories, which are manipulated media, public health, specifically COVID, and civic integrity in election interference and voter suppression. That is all we have policy on for misleading information. We do not have policy or enforcement for any other types of misleading information that you’re mentioning.

Senator Gardner: (54:25)
So somebody denying the murder of millions of people or instigating violence against a country as a head of state is not categorically falling in any of those three misinformation or other categories Twitter has?

Jack Dorsey: (54:39)
Not misinformation, but we do have other policies around incitement to violence, which may, some of the tweets that you mentioned, or the examples that you’re mentioning, may fall a [inaudible 00:19:49], but for misleading information, we’re focused on those three categories only.

Senator Gardner: (54:55)
So somebody denies the Holocaust has happened is not misinformation?

Jack Dorsey: (55:00)
It’s misleading information, but we don’t have a policy against that type of misleading information. We have-

Senator Gardner: (55:05)
Millions of people died and that’s not a violation of Twitter. Again, I just don’t understand how you can label a President of the United States. Have you ever taken a tweet down from the Ayatollah?

Jack Dorsey: (55:20)
I believe we have, but we can get back to you on it. We’ve certainly labeled tweets and I believe we have taken one down as well.

Senator Gardner: (55:27)
You know, you said you do not have a list. Is that correct? You do not maintain a list.

Jack Dorsey: (55:32)
We don’t maintain a list of accounts we watch. We look for reports and issues brought to us, and then we weigh it against our policy and enforce if needed.

Senator Gardner: (55:43)
You look for reports from your employees or from the broader news-

Jack Dorsey: (55:46)
No, from the people using the service.

Senator Gardner: (55:50)
Right, and then they turned that over to your board of the review. Is that correct?

Jack Dorsey: (55:57)
So in some cases, algorithms take action. In other cases, teammates do, in some cases it’s a pairing of the two.

Senator Gardner: (56:05)
There are numerous examples of blue check marks, blue check marks that are spreading false information that aren’t flagged. So Twitter must have some kind of list of priority accounts that it maintains. You have the blue check mark list. How do you decide when to flag a tweet? You got into that a little bit. Is there a formal threshold of retweets or likes that must be met before a tweet is flagged?

Jack Dorsey: (56:24)
No. [inaudible 00:56:27]

Senator Gardner: (56:30)
With your answers on the Ayatollah and others, I just don’t understand how Twitter can claim to want a world of less hate and misinformation while you simultaneously let the kind of content that the Ayatollah has tweeted out flourish on the platform, including from other world leaders. It’s no wonder that Americans are concerned about politically motivated content moderation at Twitter given what we have just said. I don’t like the idea of a group of unelected elites in San Francisco or Silicon Valley deciding whether my speech is permissible on their platforms, but I like the even less the idea of unelected Washington, D.C. bureaucrats trying to enforce some kind of politically neutral content moderation.

Senator Gardner: (57:11)
So just as we have heard from other panelists, as we are going to hear throughout the day, we have to be very careful and not rush to legislate in ways that stifle speech. You can delete Facebook, turn off Twitter, or try to ditch Google that you cannot unsubscribe from government censors. Congress should be focused on encouraging speech, not restricting it. The Supreme Court has tried teaching us that lesson time and time again, and the Constitution demands that we remember it.

Senator Gardner: (57:38)
I’m running short on time, so I’m going to very quickly go through another question. One of the core ideas of Section 230’s liability protections is this. You shouldn’t be responsible for what someone else says on your platform. Conversely, you should be liable for what you say or do on your own platform. I think that’s pretty common sense. But courts have not always agreed with this approach, even Rep. Chris Cox opined in a recent Wall Street Journal op-ed that, “Section 230 has sometimes been interpreted by courts more broadly than I expected, for example, allowing some websites to escape liability for content they helped create.”

Senator Gardner: (58:12)
Mr. Zuckerberg, I have a simple question for you and each of the panelists today quickly. To be clear, I’m not talking about technical tools or operating the platform itself here. I’m purely talking about content. Do you agree that internet platforms should be held liable for the specific content that you yourself create on your own platforms? Yes or no.

Chairman Wicker: (58:32)
Very quickly.

Mark Zuckerberg: (58:34)
Senator, I think that that is reasonable.

Senator Gardner: (58:37)
Yes or no, Mr. Dorsey. If Twitter creates specific content, should Twitter be liable for that content?

Jack Dorsey: (58:43)
It’s reasonable as well.

Senator Gardner: (58:44)
Mr. Pichai, same question to you. Yes or no, should Google be liable for the specific content that it creates?

Sundar Pichai: (58:51)
If we are acting as a publisher, I would say yes.

Senator Gardner: (58:56)
The specific content that you create on your own platform, yes.

Sundar Pichai: (58:59)
That seems reasonable.

Senator Gardner: (59:00)
Thank you. I think one of the other sides of liability questions in regard to the good faith removal provision in Section 230 that we’ll get into a little bit more in the private questions. I know I’m out of time. So Mr. Chairman, thank you for giving me this time. Senator Thune, thank you as well, and thanks to the witnesses

Chairman Wicker: (59:14)
Thank you, Senator Gardner. The ranking member has now deferred to Senator Klobuchar. So Senator, you are now recognized.

Senator Klobuchar: (59:27)
Thank you, Chairman. I want to note first that this hearing comes six days before election day and I believe we’re politicizing, and the Republican majority is politicizing, what should actually not be a partisan topic. And I do want to thank the witnesses here for appearing, but also for the work that they’re doing to try to encourage voting and to put out that correct information when the President and others are undermining vote by mail, something we’re doing in every state in the country right now.

Senator Klobuchar: (01:00:04)
Second point, Republicans failed to pass my bipartisan Honest Ads Act and the White House blatantly blocked the bipartisan election security bill that I had with Senator Lankford as well as several other Republicans. And it’s one of the reasons I think we need a new President.

Senator Klobuchar: (01:00:23)
Third, my Republican colleagues in the Senate, many of them I work with very well on this committee, but we have had four years to do something when it comes to anti-trust, privacy, local news, a subject that briefly came up and so many other things. So I’m going to use my time to focus on what I consider, in Justice Ginsburg’s words, to be a blueprint for the future. I’ll start with you, Mr. Zuckerberg. How many people log into Facebook every day?

Mark Zuckerberg: (01:00:55)
Senator, it is more than two billion.

Senator Klobuchar: (01:00:59)
Okay. And how much money have you made on political advertisements in the last two years?

Mark Zuckerberg: (01:01:06)
Senator, I do not know off the top of my head. It is a relatively small part of our revenue.

Senator Klobuchar: (01:01:11)
Okay. Small for you, but I think it’s 2.2 billion over 10,000 ads sold since May 2018. Those are your numbers and we can check them later. Do you require Facebook employees to review the content of each of the political ads that you sell in order to ensure that they comply with the law and your own internal rules?

Mark Zuckerberg: (01:01:34)
Senator, we require all political advertisers to be verified before they could run ads. And I believe we do review advertising as well.

Senator Klobuchar: (01:01:46)
But does a real person actually read the political ads that you [inaudible 00:26:50]? Yes or no.

Mark Zuckerberg: (01:01:53)
Senator. I imagine that a person does not look at every single ad. Our systems are a combination of artificial intelligence systems and people. We have 35,000 people who do content and security review for us, but given the massive amount of money-

Senator Klobuchar: (01:02:09)
I really just had a straightforward question because I don’t think they do. I think the algorithm’s hidden, because I think the ads instantly are placed. Is that correct?

Mark Zuckerberg: (01:02:20)
Senator, my understanding of the way the system works is we have computers and artificial intelligence scan everything. And if we think that there are potential violations, then either the AI system will act or it will flag it to the tens of thousands of people who do content review. But-

Senator Klobuchar: (01:02:40)
With all the money you have, you could have a real person review like a lot of the other traditional media organizations do. So another question. When John McCain and I, and Senator Warner, introduced the Honest Ads Act, we got pushback from your company, others, and you were initially against it. Then we discussed this at a hearing. You’re for it. I appreciate that. And have you spent any of the money? I know you spent the most money, Facebook spent the most money ever lobbying last year. Have you spent any of the money trying to change or block the bill?

Mark Zuckerberg: (01:03:12)
Senator, [crosstalk 01:03:13] no. In fact, I’ve endorsed it publicly and we’ve implemented it into our systems even though it hasn’t become law. I’m a big supporter [crosstalk 00:01:03:22].

Senator Klobuchar: (01:03:24)
Try to change it, no? Have you done anything to get it passed? Because we’re at a roadblock on it. And I do appreciate that you voluntarily implemented some of it, but have you voluntarily implemented the part of the Honest Ads Act where you fully disclosed which groups of people are being targeted by political ads?

Mark Zuckerberg: (01:03:45)
Senator, we have, I think, industry leading transparency around political ads, and part of that is showing which audiences, in broad terms, ended up seeing the ads. Of course, getting the right resolution on that is challenging without it becoming a privacy issue. But we’ve tried to do that and provide as much transparency as we can, and I think where we’re currently leading in that area. And to your question about how we’re-

Senator Klobuchar: (01:04:13)
I still have concerns, and I don’t mean to interrupt you, but I have such limited time. One of the things that I, and last thing I want to ask you about, is divisiveness on the platform. And I know there’s been a recent studies have shown that part of your algorithms had pushed people towards more polarized content left, right, whatever. In fact, one of your researchers warned senior executives that our algorithms exploit the human brains that traction to divisiveness. The way I look at it, more divisiveness, more time on the platform, more time on the platform, the company makes more money. Does that bother you what it’s done to our politics?

Mark Zuckerberg: (01:04:54)
Senator, I respectfully disagree with that characterization of how the systems work. We design our systems to show people the content that’s going to be the most meaningful to them, which is not trying to be as divisive as possible. Most of the content on the systems is not political. It’s things like making sure that you can see when your cousin had her baby or-

Senator Klobuchar: (01:05:19)
Okay. Okay. I’m going to move on to Google here and Mr. Pichai, but I’m telling you right now that that’s not what I’m talking about, the cousins and the babies here. I’m talking about conspiracy theories and all the things that I think the Senators on both sides of the aisle know what I’m talking about. And I think it’s been pervasive.

Senator Klobuchar: (01:05:41)
Google, Mr. Pichai, I have not really liked your response to the lawsuit and what’s been happening. I think we need a change in competition policy for this country. I hope I’ll be able to ask you more about it at the judiciary committee. And I think your response isn’t just defensive. It’s been defiant to the Justice Department in suits all over the world. You control almost 90% of all general search engine queries, 70% of the search advertising market. Don’t you see these practices as anti-competitive?

Sundar Pichai: (01:06:15)
Senator, we are a popular general purpose search engine. We do see robust competition, many categories of information and we invest significantly in R and D. We are innovating. We are lowering prices in all the markets we are operating, and happy to engage and discuss it further.

Senator Klobuchar: (01:06:36)
Well, one of your employees testified before the Antitrust sub-committee last month, and he suggested that Google wasn’t dominant in ad tech, that it was only one of many companies in a highly competitive ad tech landscape. Yet, Google has 90% of the publisher ad server market, a product of its double-click acquisition. Does the market sound highly competitive to you when you have 90% of it?

Chairman Wicker: (01:06:59)
Very brief answer.

Sundar Pichai: (01:07:01)
Many publishers can use simultaneously many tools. Amazon and Trade Desk alone have grown significantly in the last two years. You know, this is a market in which we share majority of our revenue. Our margins are low. We are happy to take feedback here. We are trying to support the publishing industry, but definitely open to feedback and happy to engage and discuss it further.

Chairman Wicker: (01:07:21)
Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Pichai.

Senator Klobuchar: (01:07:21)
Well, I think you’ve gotten feedback from the lawsuits, so I’m looking forward to our next sharing to discuss it more. Thank you.

Chairman Wicker: (01:07:29)
Thank you very much. Senator Thune, you are now recognized.

Senator Thune: (01:07:30)
Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I appreciate you convening the hearing today, which is an important followup to the sub-committee hearing that we convened in July on Section 230. Many us here today and many of those we represent are deeply concerned about the possibility of political bias and discrimination by large internet, social media platforms. Others are concerned that even if your actions aren’t skewed, that they are hugely consequential for our public debate, yet you operate with limited accountability. Such distrust is intensified by the fact that the moderation practices used to suppress or amplify content remain largely a black box to the public.

Senator Thune: (01:08:09)
Moreover, the public explanations given by the platforms for taking down or suppressing content too often seem like excuses that have to be walked back after scrutiny. And due to exceptional secrecy with which platforms protect their algorithms and content moderation practices, it’s been impossible to prove one way or another whether political bias exists. So users are stuck with anecdotal information that frequently seems to confirm their worst fears. Which is why I’ve introduced two bipartisan bills, the Platform Accountability and Consumer Transparency, or the PACT Act, and the Filter Bubble Transparency Act, to give users, the regulators, and the general public meaningful insight into online content moderation decisions and how algorithms may be amplifying or suppressing information. And so I look forward to continuing that discussion today. My Democrat colleagues suggest that when we criticize the bias against conservatives that we’re somehow working the refs, but the analogy of working the refs assumes that it’s legitimate even to think of you as refs. It assumes that you three Silicon Valley CEOs get to decide what political speech gets amplified or suppressed, and it assumes that you’re the arbiters of truth, or at the very least the publishers making editorial decisions about speech. So yes or no, I would ask this of each of the three of you, are the Democrats correct that you all are the legitimate referees over our political speech. Mr. Zuckerberg, are you the ref?

Mark Zuckerberg: (01:09:44)
Senator, I certainly think not and I do not want us to have that role.

Senator Thune: (01:09:50)
Mr. Dorsey, are you the ref?

Jack Dorsey: (01:09:57)
No.

Senator Thune: (01:09:58)
Mr. Pichai, are you the ref?

Sundar Pichai: (01:10:01)
Senator, I do think we make content moderation decision-

Sundar Pichai: (01:10:03)
Senator, I do think we make content moderation decisions, but we are transparent about it and we do it to protect users, but we really believe and support maximizing freedom of expression.

Senator Thune: (01:10:13)
I’ll take that as three nos, and I agree with that. You are not the referees of our political speech. That’s why all three of you have to be more transparent and fair with your content moderation policies in your content selection algorithms. Because at the moment, it is, as I said, largely a black box. There is real mistrust among the American people about whether you’re being fair or transparent. This extends their concerns about the kinds of amplification and suppression decisions your platforms may make on election day and during the post election period, if the results of the election are too close to call.

Senator Thune: (01:10:47)
So, I just want to underscore, again, for my Democratic friends who keep using this really bad referee analogy, Google, Facebook, and Twitter are not the referees over our democracy. Now, second question, the PACT Act, which I referenced earlier, includes provisions to give users due process and an explanation when content they post is removed. So, this is, again, a yes or no question. Do you agree that users should be entitled to due process and an explanation when content they post has been taken down? Mr. Zuckerberg?

Mark Zuckerberg: (01:11:27)
Senator, I think that that would be a good principle to have.

Senator Thune: (01:11:31)
Thank you. Mr. Dorsey?

Jack Dorsey: (01:11:32)
Absolutely. We believe in a fair and straightforward appeals process.

Senator Thune: (01:11:36)
Great. Mr. Pichai?

Sundar Pichai: (01:11:38)
Yes, Senator.

Senator Thune: (01:11:41)
Great. Thank you. Mr. Zuckerberg, Mr. Dorsey, your platforms knowingly suppressed or limited the visibility of this New York Post article about the content on Hunter Biden’s abandoned laptop. Many in the country are justifiably concerned how often the suppression of major newspaper articles occurs online. I would say, Mr. Zuckerberg, would you commit to provide, for the record, a complete list of newspaper articles that Facebook suppressed or limited the distribution of over the past five years, along with an explanation of why each article was suppressed or the distribution was limited?

Mark Zuckerberg: (01:12:25)
Senator, I can certainly follow up with you and your team to discuss that. We have an independent fact checking program, as you’re saying. We try not to be arbiters of what is true ourselves, but we have partnered with fact-checkers around the world to help assess that, to prevent misinformation and viral hoaxes from becoming widely distributed on our platform. I believe that the information that they fact check and the content that they fact check is public. So, I think that there’s probably already a record of this that can be reviewed.

Senator Thune: (01:13:07)
Yeah. But if you could do that, as it applies to newspapers, that would be very helpful. Mr. Dorsey, would you commit to doing the same on behalf of Twitter?

Jack Dorsey: (01:13:17)
We would absolutely be open to it. We are suggesting going a step further, which is aligned with what you’re introducing in the PACT Act, which is much more transparency around our process, content moderation process, and also the results, the outcomes, and doing that on a regular basis. I do agree and think that builds more accountability, and ultimately that lends itself to more trust.

Senator Thune: (01:13:43)
Okay, great. Thank you. All right, very quickly, I don’t have a lot of time either, but I often hear from conservative and religious Americans who look at the public statements of your companies, the geographic concentration of your companies, and the political donations of your employees, which often are in the 80% to 90% to Democrat politicians. You can see why this lack of ideological diversity among the executives and employees of your company could be problematic and maybe contributing to some of the distrust among Conservatives and Republican users.

Senator Thune: (01:14:21)
So, I guess the question that I would ask is, and Mr. Zuckerberg, my understanding is that the person that’s in charge of election integrity and security at Facebook is a former Joe Biden staffer. Is there someone that’s closely associated with President Trump who’s in the same sort of election integrity role at Facebook? How do you all respond to that argument that there isn’t sufficient balance in terms of the political ideology or diversity in your companies? How do you deal with the lack of sort of trust that creates among Conservatives?

Chairman Wicker: (01:15:01)
Let’s see if we can have three brief answers there.

Mark Zuckerberg: (01:15:09)
Senator, I think having balances is valuable, and we try to do that. I’m not aware of the example that you say of someone in charge of this process who worked for Biden in the past. So, we can follow up on that if that’s all right.

Chairman Wicker: (01:15:25)
Yeah, follow up on the record for the rest of this answer, please, Mr. Zuckerberg. Thank you.

Mark Zuckerberg: (01:15:30)
All right.

Chairman Wicker: (01:15:32)
Mr. Dorsey?

Jack Dorsey: (01:15:32)
Well, this is why I do believe that it’s important to have more transparency around our process and our practices, and it’s independent of the viewpoints that our employees told.

Chairman Wicker: (01:15:48)
Mr. Pichai?

Jack Dorsey: (01:15:50)
We need to make sure that we’re showing people that we have objective policies and enforcement.

Chairman Wicker: (01:15:54)
Mr. Pichai?

Sundar Pichai: (01:15:57)
In these teams, there are people who are Liberal, Republican, Libertarian, and so on. We are committed, we consult widely with important third party organizations across both sites when we develop our policies. As a CEO, I’m committed to running it without any political bias, but happy to engage more on answer.

Chairman Wicker: (01:16:17)
Thank you, gentlemen, and thank you, Senator Thune. The ranking member has now deferred to Senator Blumenthal. Sir, you are recognized.

Senator Richard Blumenthal: (01:16:27)
Thanks, Mr. Chairman, and thank you to the ranking member. I want to begin by associating myself with the very thoughtful comments made by the ranking member as to the need for broader consideration of issues of privacy and competition and local news. They are vitally important. Also, with the comments made by my colleagues, Senator Klobuchar, about the need for antitrust review. I assume we’ll be examining some of these topics in November, before the judiciary committee. I’ve been an advocate of reform of Section 230 for literally 15 years.

Senator Richard Blumenthal: (01:17:14)
When I was Attorney General at the State of Connecticut, I raised this issue of the absolute immunity that no longer seems appropriate. So, I really welcome the bipartisan consensus that we’re seeing now, that there needs to be a constructive review. But frankly, I am appalled that my Republican colleagues are holding this hearing literally days before an election, when they seem to want to bully and browbeat the platforms here to try to tilt them toward President Trump favor. The timing seems inexplicable except to game the ref in effect.

Senator Richard Blumenthal: (01:18:11)
I recognize the referee analogy is not completely exact, but that’s exactly what they’re trying to do, namely to bully and browbeat these platforms to favor President Trump’s tweets and posts. Frankly, President Trump has broken all the norms and he has put on your platforms potentially dangerous and lethal misinformation and disinformation. I’m going to hold up one of them. This one, as you can see, pertains to COVID. We have learned to live with it. He says, just like we are learning to live with COVID, talking about the flu, we have learned to live with it.

Senator Richard Blumenthal: (01:19:04)
In most populations, far less lethal. He has said that children, I would say, almost definitely, but almost immune from this disease. He has said about the election’s big problems and discrepancies with mail-in ballots all over the USA must have final total on November 3rd. Fortunately, the platforms are acting to label or take down these kinds of posts, but my Republican colleagues have been silent. They’ve lost their phones or their voices and the platforms in my view have-

Chairman Wicker: (01:19:57)
We just lost your voice there in mid sentence, Richard. Let’s suspend for just a minute till we get-

Senator Richard Blumenthal: (01:20:14)
I hope you can hear me now.

Chairman Wicker: (01:20:15)
There we are. Okay. We can hear you now, Senator Blumenthal. Just start back one sentence before. We had you until then.

Senator Richard Blumenthal: (01:20:27)
I just want to say about this misinformation from the President. There’s been deafening silence from my Republican colleagues. Now, we have a hearing that is in effect designed to intimidate or probably browbeat the platforms that have labeled this disinformation for exactly what it is. We’re on the verge of a massive onslaught on the integrity of our elections. President Trump has indicated that he will potentially interfere by posting information on election day, or the morning after. The Russians have begun already interfering in our elections.

Senator Richard Blumenthal: (01:21:15)
We’ve all received briefings that are literally chilling about what they are doing. The FBI and the CSIS has recently issued public alerts that, “foreign actors and cyber criminals likely to spread disinformation regarding 2020 results”. They are making 2016 look like child’s play in what they are doing. So, President Trump and the Republicans have a plan, which involves disinformation and misinformation. The Russians have a plan. I want to know whether you have a plan, Facebook, Twitter, Google, a plan, if the President uses your platforms to say on the day of the election that there is rigging or fraud without any basis in evidence.

Senator Richard Blumenthal: (01:22:27)
Or, attempts to say that the election is over and the voting, the counting of votes, must stop either on November 4th or some day subsequent. I would like, as to this question, about whether you have a plan, a yes or no.

Mark Zuckerberg: (01:22:55)
Senator, I could start. We do, we have policies related to all of the areas that you just mentioned. Candidates or campaigns trying to delegitimize methods of voting or the election, candidates trying to prematurely declare victory, and candidates trying to spread voter suppression material that is misleading about how, when, or where to vote. So, we’ve taken a number of steps on that front.

Senator Richard Blumenthal: (01:23:29)
Okay.

Chairman Wicker: (01:23:29)
Perhaps we could take Mr. Pichai next and then Mr. Dorsey. Mr. Pichai?

Sundar Pichai: (01:23:35)
Senator, yes, we definitely are robustly, we have been planning for a while and we rely on raising up new sources through moments like that, as well as we have closely partnered with the Associated Press to make sure we can provide users the most accurate information possible.

Jack Dorsey: (01:23:55)
Yes, we also have a plan. So, our plan and our enforcement around these issues is pointing to more information and specifically State election officials. So, we want to give the people using the service as much information as possible.

Chairman Wicker: (01:24:11)
Thank you, Senator Blumenthal. Senator Cruz.

Senator Ted Cruz: (01:24:16)
Chairman, I want to thank you, Mr. Chairman, for holding this hearing. The three witnesses we have before this committee today collectively pose, I believe, the single greatest threat to free speech in America, and the greatest threat we have to free and fair elections. Yesterday, I spent a considerable amount of time speaking with both Mr. Zuckerberg and Mr. Pichai. I have concerns about the behavior of both of their companies. I would note that Facebook is at the minimum at least trying to make some efforts in the direction of defending free speech.

Senator Ted Cruz: (01:24:50)
I appreciate their doing so. Google, I agree with the concerns that Senator Klobuchar raised. I think Google has more power than any company on the face of the planet, and the antitrust concerns are real. The impact of Google is profound, and I expect we will have continued and ongoing discussions about Google’s abuse of that power and its willingness to manipulate search outcomes to influence and change election results. But today, I want to focus my questioning on Mr. Dorsey and on Twitter, because of the three players before us, I think Twitter’s conduct has by far been the most egregious. Mr. Dorsey, does Twitter have the ability to influence elections?

Jack Dorsey: (01:25:45)
No.

Senator Ted Cruz: (01:25:48)
You don’t believe Twitter has any ability to influence elections?

Jack Dorsey: (01:25:52)
No, we are one part of spectrum of communication channels that people have.

Senator Ted Cruz: (01:25:57)
So, you are testified to this committee right now that Twitter, when it silences people, when it censors people, when it blocks political speech, that it has no impact on elections?

Jack Dorsey: (01:26:07)
People have choice of other communication channels with [crosstalk 01:26:11].

Senator Ted Cruz: (01:26:11)
Not if they don’t hear information. If you don’t think you have the power to influence elections, why do you block anything?

Jack Dorsey: (01:26:19)
Well, we have policies that are focused on making sure that more voices on the platform are possible. We see a lot of abuse and harassment, which ends up silencing people and something I believe from the platform.

Senator Ted Cruz: (01:26:30)
All right, Mr. Dorsey, I find your opening questions, your opening answers absurd on their face, but let’s talk about the last two weeks in particular. As you know, I have long been concerned about Twitter’s pattern of censoring and silencing individual Americans with whom Twitter disagrees. But two weeks ago, Twitter, and to a lesser extent, Facebook crossed a threshold that is fundamental in our country. Two weeks ago, Twitter made the unilateral decision to censor the New York Post, and a series of two blockbuster articles, both alleging evidence of corruption against Joe Biden.

Senator Ted Cruz: (01:27:08)
The first concerning Ukraine, the second concerning communist China. Twitter made the decision, number one, to prevent users, any user, from sharing those stories. Number two, you went even further and blocked the New York Post from sharing on Twitter its own reporting. Why did Twitter make the decision to censor the New York Post?

Jack Dorsey: (01:27:33)
We had a hack materials policy that we-

Senator Ted Cruz: (01:27:37)
When was that policy adopted?

Jack Dorsey: (01:27:39)
In 2018, I believe.

Senator Ted Cruz: (01:27:41)
In 2018. Go ahead. What was the policy?

Jack Dorsey: (01:27:44)
So, the policy is around limiting the spread of materials that are hacked, and we didn’t want Twitter to be a distributor for hack materials. We found that the New York Post, because it showed the direct materials, screenshots of the direct materials, and it was unclear how those were attained, that it fell under this policy.

Senator Ted Cruz: (01:28:10)
So, in your view, if it’s unclear, the source of a document, and in this instance, the New York Post documented what it said the source was, which it said it was a laptop owned by Hunter Biden, that had been turned into a repair store. So, they weren’t hiding what they claimed to be the source. Is it your position that Twitter, when you can’t tell the source, blocks press stories?

Jack Dorsey: (01:28:34)
No, not at all. Our team made a fast decision. The enforcement action, however, of blocking URLs, both in tweets and in DM, in direct messages, we believe was incorrect and we changed it within 24 hours.

Senator Ted Cruz: (01:28:50)
Today, right now, the New York Post is still blocked from tweeting two weeks later.

Jack Dorsey: (01:28:56)
Yes, they have to log into their account, which they can do at this minute, delete the original tweet, which fell under our original enforcement actions, and they can tweet the exact same material from the exact same article and it would go through.

Senator Ted Cruz: (01:29:09)
So, Mr. Dorsey, your ability is you have the power to force a media outlet, and let’s be clear, the New York Post isn’t just some random guy tweeting. The New York Post is the fourth highest circulation of any newspaper in America. The New York Post is over 200 years old. The New York Post was founded by Alexander Hamilton, and your position is that you can sit in Silicon Valley and demand of the media that you can tell them what stories they can publish, and you can tell the American people what reporting they can hear, is that right?

Jack Dorsey: (01:29:41)
No, every person, every account, every organization that signs up to Twitter agrees to a terms of service, a terms of service is [crosstalk 01:29:53]-

Senator Ted Cruz: (01:29:53)
So, media outlets must genuflect and obey your dictates if they wish to be able to communicate with readers, is that right?

Jack Dorsey: (01:30:01)
No, not at all. We recognized an error in this policy and specifically the enforcement.

Senator Ted Cruz: (01:30:06)
You’re still blocking their posts. You’re still blocking their posts. Right now, today, you’re blocking their posts.

Jack Dorsey: (01:30:12)
We’re not blocking the post. Anyone can tweet, [crosstalk 01:30:15].

Senator Ted Cruz: (01:30:14)
Can the New York Post post on their Twitter account?

Jack Dorsey: (01:30:19)
If they go into their account and delete the original [crosstalk 01:30:21]-

Senator Ted Cruz: (01:30:21)
No is your answer to that, unless they genuflect and agree with your dictates. So, let me ask you something. You claimed it was because of a hack materials policy. I find that facially highly dubious and clearly employed in a deeply partial way. Did Twitter block the distribution of the New York Times’ story a few weeks ago that purported to be based on copies of President Trump’s tax returns?

Jack Dorsey: (01:30:52)
We didn’t find that a violation of our terms of service and this policy in particular, because it is reporting about the material. It wasn’t distributing the material.

Senator Ted Cruz: (01:31:01)
Okay, well, that’s actually not true. They posted what they purported to be original source materials, and federal law, federal statute makes it a crime, a federal felony, to distribute someone’s tax returns against their knowledge. So, that material was based on something that was distributed in violation of federal law, and yet Twitter gleefully allowed people to circulate that. But when the article was critical of Joe Biden, Twitter engaged in rampant censorship and silencing.

Jack Dorsey: (01:31:33)
Again, we recognized the errors in our policy and we changed it within 24 hours. So, this is one of-

Senator Ted Cruz: (01:31:39)
But you’re still blocking the New York Post. You haven’t changed it.

Jack Dorsey: (01:31:42)
We have changed it. They can log into their account and delete the original tweet that was [crosstalk 01:31:47].

Senator Ted Cruz: (01:31:46)
You forced the political reporter to take down his post about the New York Post as well, is that correct?

Jack Dorsey: (01:31:52)
Within that 24 hour period? Yes, but as the policy has changed, anyone can tweet this article [crosstalk 01:31:58].

Senator Ted Cruz: (01:31:58)
So, [crosstalk 01:31:58], you could censor the New York Post, you can censor political, presumably you can censor the New York Times or any other media outlet. Mr. Dorsey, who the hell elected you and put you in charge of what the media are allowed to report and what the American people are allowed to hear, and why do you persist in behaving as a Democratic super PAC silencing views to the contrary of your political beliefs?

Chairman Wicker: (01:32:25)
Let’s give Mr. Dorsey a few second to answer that, and then we’ll have to conclude this segment.

Jack Dorsey: (01:32:34)
Well, we’re not doing that. This is why I opened this hearing with calls for more transparency. We realized we need to earn trust more. We realized that more accountability is needed to show our intentions and to show the outcomes.

Chairman Wicker: (01:32:49)
Thank you, Senator.

Jack Dorsey: (01:32:50)
So, I hear the concerns and acknowledge them, but we want to fix it with more transparency.

Chairman Wicker: (01:32:56)
Thank you, Senator Cruz. The ranking member has deferred now to Senator Schatz, who joins us remotely. Sir, you are recognized.

Senator Brian Schatz: (01:33:06)
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, ranking member. This is an unusual hearing at an unusual time. I have never seen a hearing so close to an election on any topic, let alone on something that is so obviously a violation of our obligation under the law and the rules of the Senate to stay out of electioneering. We never do this, and there is a very good reason that we don’t call people before us to yell at them for not doing our bidding during an election. It is a misuse of taxpayer dollars. What’s happening here is a scar on this committee and the United States Senate.

Senator Brian Schatz: (01:33:48)
What we are seeing today is an attempt to bully the CEOs of private companies into carrying out a hit job on a presidential candidate, by making sure that they push out foreign and domestic misinformation meant to influence the election. To our witnesses today, you and other tech leaders need to stand up to this immoral behavior. The truth is, that because some of my colleagues accuse you, your companies, and your employees of being biased or Liberal, you have institutionally bent over backwards and overcompensated.

Senator Brian Schatz: (01:34:25)
You’ve hired Republican operatives, hosted private dinners with Republican leaders, and in contravention over your terms of service, given special dispensation to right wing voices and even throttled progressive journalism. Simply put, the Republicans have been successful in this play. So, during one of the most consequential elections in American history, my colleagues are trying to run this play again, and it is an embarrassment. I have plenty of questions for the witnesses on Section 230 on antitrust, on privacy, on antisemitism, on their relationship with journalism, but we have to call this hearing what it is, it’s a sham.

Senator Brian Schatz: (01:35:09)
So, for the first time in my eight years in the United States Senate, I’m not going to use my time to ask any questions because this is nonsense and it’s not going to work this time. This play my colleagues are running did not start today, and it’s not just happening here in the Senate. It is a coordinated effort by Republicans across the government. Last May, President Trump issued an executive order designed to narrow the protections of Section 230 to discourage platforms from engaging in content moderation on their own sites. After it was issued, President Trump started tweeting that Section 230 should be repealed as if he understands Section 230.

Senator Brian Schatz: (01:35:49)
In the last six months, President Trump has tweeted repeal Section 230 five times, in addition to other tweets in which he’s threatened the tech companies. A few weeks later, President Trump withdrew the nomination of FCC Commissioner Mike O’Reilly. Republican Commissioner O’Reilly questioned the FCC’s authority to regulate under Section 230 and the statute is not unclear on this. President Trump then nominated Nathan Simington, who was the drafter of NTIA’s petition to the FCC regarding Section 230, and Republican senators have enthusiastically participated.

Senator Brian Schatz: (01:36:29)
Since June of this year, six Republican only bills have been introduced all of which threatened platform’s ability to moderate content on their site. As the election draws closer, this Republican effort has become more and more aggressive. September 23rd, DOJ unveiled its own Section 230 draft legislation that would narrow the protections under the current law and discourage platforms from moderating content on their own site. September 14th and October 1st, respectively, Senators Hawley and Kennedy tried to pass their Republican only Section 230 bills live unanimous consent.

Senator Brian Schatz: (01:37:08)
Now, what that means is they went down to the floor and without a legislative hearing, without any input from Democrats at all, they tried to pass something so foundational to the internet unanimously without any discussion and any debate. On the same day as Senator Kennedy’s UC attempt, Senator Wicker forces the commerce committee without any discussion or negotiation beforehand to vote on subpoenaing the CEOs of Twitter, Facebook, and Google to testify. That’s why we’re here today. Two weeks later, on October 14th, Justice Clarence Thomas, on his own, issued a statement that appeared to support the narrowing of the court’s interpretation on Section 230.

Senator Brian Schatz: (01:37:51)
The very next day, the FCC Chairman Ajit Pai announced that the FCC would seek to clarify the meaning of Section 230. On that day, Senator Graham announced that the judiciary committee would vote to subpoena the tech companies over the content moderation. The context of this, in addition to everything, is that Senator Cruz is on Maria Bartiromo talking about a blockbuster story from the New York Post. Senator Hawley is on Fox and on the Senate floor and the commerce committee itself is tweeting out a campaign style video that sort of alarmingly says Hunter Biden’s emails, text censorship.

Senator Brian Schatz: (01:38:33)
On October 21st, Senator Hawley reattempted to pass his bill on Section 230 via UC, again, without going through any committee mark-up or vote. On Friday, Senator Graham announced that the CEO’s of Facebook and Twitter would testify before the Senate Judiciary Committee on November 17th. This is bullying and it is for electoral purposes. Do not let the United States Senate bully you into carrying the water for those who want to advance misinformation. Don’t let the specter of removing Section 230 protections or an amendment to antitrust law, or any other kinds of threats cause you to be a party to the subversion of our democracy.

Senator Brian Schatz: (01:39:20)
I will be glad to participate in good faith bipartisan hearings on these issues when the election is over, but this is not that. Thank you.

Chairman Wicker: (01:39:32)
Thank you, Senator Schatz. Next is Senator Fischer.

Senator Deb Fischer: (01:39:39)
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen, I’m not here to bully you today, and I am certainly not here to read any kind of political statement right before an election. To me, this hearing is not a sham. I am here to gain some clarity on the policies that you use. I am here to look at your proposals for more transparency, because your platforms have become an integral part of our democratic process for both candidates, but also more importantly for our citizens as well. Your platforms also have enormous power to manipulate user behavior and to direct content and to shape narratives.

Senator Deb Fischer: (01:40:34)
Mr. Dorsey, I heard your opening statement. I’ve read it. You also tweeted that the concept of good faith is what’s being challenged by many of you here today. Some of you don’t trust we’re acting in good faith. That’s the problem I want to focus on solving. Mr. Dorsey, why should we trust you with so much power? In other words, why shouldn’t we regulate you more?

Jack Dorsey: (01:41:05)
Well, the suggestions we’re making around more transparency is how we want to build that trust. We do agree that we should be publishing more of our practice of content moderation. We’ve made decisions to moderate content. We’ve made decisions to moderate content to make sure that we are enabling as many voices on our platform as possible. I acknowledge and completely agree with the concerns that it feels like a black box. Anything that we can do to bring transparency to it, including publishing our policies, our practices, answering very simple questions around how content is moderated, and then doing what we can around the growing trend of algorithms, moderating more of this content.

Jack Dorsey: (01:41:56)
As I said, this one is a tough one to actually bring transparency to. Explainability in AI is a field of research, but it is far out. I think a better opportunity is giving people more choice around the algorithms they use, including we would turn off the algorithms completely, which is what we’re attempting to do.

Senator Deb Fischer: (01:42:19)
Right, but you can understand the concerns that people have when they see that what many consider you’re making value judgments on what’s going to be on your platforms. You say users can report a content and then you take action, but certainly, you can understand that people are very concerned. They’re very worried about what they see as manipulation on your part, and to say you’re going to have more transparency and yeah, that’s, Sir, I would say with respect, I don’t think that’s enough just to say you’re going to have that transparency there and you’re not influencing people.

Senator Deb Fischer: (01:43:15)
Because as any time a free press is blocked on both sides, what we would view in the political world as both sides here, when views aren’t able to be expressed, that does have a huge amount of influence.

Jack Dorsey: (01:43:37)
I completely understand. I agree that it’s not enough. I don’t think transparency alone addresses these concerns. I think we have to continue to push for a more straightforward, and fast, and efficient appeals process. I do believe we need to look deeply at algorithms and how they’re used and how people have choice on how to use those algorithms or whether they use them.

Senator Deb Fischer: (01:43:59)
But ultimately, somebody makes a decision. Where does the buck stop with the algorithms? Where does the buck stop? Who’s going to make a value judgment? Because in my opinion, it is a value judgment.

Jack Dorsey: (01:44:12)
Well, ultimately, I’m accountable to all the decisions that the company makes, but we want to make sure that we’re providing clear frameworks that are objective and that can be tested, and that we have multiple checkpoints associated with them so that we can learn quickly if we’re doing something in there.

Senator Deb Fischer: (01:44:29)
When your company amplifies some content over others, is it fair for you to have legal protections for your actions?

Jack Dorsey: (01:44:42)
We believe so. Keep in mind, a lot of our algorithms recommending content is focused on saving people time. So, we’re ranking things that the algorithms believe people would find most relevant and most valuable in the time [crosstalk 01:44:57]-

Senator Deb Fischer: (01:44:57)
But it’s your value judgment on what those people would find most relevant?

Jack Dorsey: (01:45:02)
No, it’s not about your judgment, it’s based on-

Senator Deb Fischer: (01:45:03)
… find most relevant?

Jack Dorsey: (01:45:03)
No. It’s not about [inaudible 01:45:03]. It’s based on engagement metrics, it’s based on who you follow, it’s based on activity you take on on the network.

Senator Deb Fischer: (01:45:11)
Mr. Zuckerberg, with your ever-expanding content moderation policies, are you materially involved in that content?

Mark Zuckerberg: (01:45:23)
Senator, Yes. I spend a meaningful amount of time on making sure that we get our content policies and enforcement right.

Senator Deb Fischer: (01:45:31)
Okay, thank you. What, if any changes, do you think should be made to Section 230 to address the specific concerns regarding content moderation that you’ve heard so far this morning?

Mark Zuckerberg: (01:45:46)
Senator, I would outline a couple. First, I agree with Jack that increasing transparency into the content moderation process would be an important step for building trust and accountability. One thing that we already do at Facebook is, every quarter, we issue a transparency report where, for each of the 20 or so categories of harmful content that we are trying to address, so terrorism, child exploitation, incitement of violence, pornography, different types of content, we issue a report on how we’re doing, what the prevalence of that content is on our network, and what percent of it our systems are able to take down before someone even has to report it to us and what the precision is and basically how accurate our systems are at dealing with it.

Mark Zuckerberg: (01:46:41)
And getting to the point that everyone across the industry is reporting on a baseline like that, I think would be valuable for people to have these discussions not just about anecdotes of, “Okay, I saw a piece of content and I’m not necessarily sure I agree with how that was moderated,” it would allow their conversation to move to data. So that way, we can understand how these platforms are performing overall and hold them accountable.

Chairman Wicker: (01:47:09)
Thank you.

Senator Deb Fischer: (01:47:09)
That issue with your answer, I think, would be the time involved, that it wouldn’t be an immediate response to have that conversation, as you call it. I hope that all three of you gentlemen can answer that question in [inaudible 01:47:24] question. So my time is up. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

Chairman Wicker: (01:47:27)
Thank you, Senator Fischer. I appreciate that. We are going to take, now, Senator Cantwell’s questioning, after which we are going to accommodate our witnesses with a five-minute recess. So Senator Cantwell, you are recognized.

Maria Cantwell: (01:47:44)
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Can you hear me?

Chairman Wicker: (01:47:47)
Surely can.

Maria Cantwell: (01:47:48)
And can you see me this time?

Chairman Wicker: (01:47:50)
We can now see you, yes.

Maria Cantwell: (01:47:52)
Okay. Well, thank you, Mr. Chairman. And this is such an important hearing. I agree with many of the statements my colleagues have had that this hearing did need to take place at this moment, that the important discussion about how we keep a thriving internet economy and how we continue to make sure that hate speech and misinformation is taken down from the web is something that would probably better have been done in January than now, but here we are today and we’ve heard some astounding things that I definitely must refute.

Maria Cantwell: (01:48:24)
First of all, I’m not going to take lightly anybody who tries to undermine mail-in voting. Mail-in voting in the United States of America is safe. The State of Washington, the State of Oregon have been doing it for years. There is nothing wrong with our mail-in system. So I think that they’ll be secretaries of state, they’ll be our law enforcement agencies who’ve worked hard with state election officials and others who will be talking about how this process works and how we’re going to fight to protect it.

Maria Cantwell: (01:48:55)
I’m also going to not demean an organization just because they happen to be headquartered in the State of Washington or to have business there. That somebody claims that just because the geography of a company somehow makes it uber political for one side of the aisle or another, I seriously doubt. I know that because I see many of you coming to the State of Washington for Republican fundraisers with these officials. I know you know darn well that there are plenty of Republicans that work in high-tech firms.

Maria Cantwell: (01:49:25)
So the notion that somehow these people are crossing the aisle because of something and creating censorship, the notion that free speech is about the ability to say things and it doesn’t take … Well, maybe we need to have a history lesson from high school again, but yes, free speech means that people can make outrageous statements about their beliefs. So I think that the CEOs are telling us here what their process is for taking down healthcare information that’s, in fact, that’s not true, that is a threat to the public, and information that is a threat to our democracy. That is what they’re talking about.

Maria Cantwell: (01:50:05)
So I want to make it clear that this hearing could’ve happened at a later date and I don’t appreciate the misinformation that is coming across today that is trying to undermine our election process. It is safe. It is the backbone of what distinguishes America from other countries in the world. We do know how to have a safe and fair election. And one of the ways that we’re doing that is to have these individuals work with our law enforcement entities. My colleague, Gary Peters, made it very clear they successfully helped stop a threat on the Governor of Michigan. And why? Because they were working with them to make sure that information was passed on.

Maria Cantwell: (01:50:47)
So this is what we’re talking about. We’re talking about whether we’re going to be on the side of freedom and information and whether we’re going to put our shoulder to the wheel to continue to make sure that engine is there or whether we’re going to prematurely try to get rid of 230 and squash free speech. And so I want to make sure that we continue to move forward.

Maria Cantwell: (01:51:06)
So Mr. Zuckerberg, I’d like to turn to you because there was a time where there was great concern about what happened in Myanmar about the government using information against a Muslim minority. And you’ve took action and reformed the system. And just recently, in September, Facebook and Twitter announced they had suspended networks’ accounts liked to various organizations and for use of techniques, laundering Russian-backed websites’ accounts and derisive propaganda that we associated with state-run attempts to interfere in our elections. So could you please, Mr. Zuckerberg, talk about what you are doing to make sure state-run entities don’t interfere in US elections?

Mark Zuckerberg: (01:51:53)
Yes. Thank you, Senator. Since 2016, we’ve been building up some very sophisticated systems to make sure that we can stop foreign interference in elections, not just in the US, but all around the world. And a lot of this involves building up AI systems to identify when clusters of accounts aren’t behaving in the way that a normal person would. They’re behaving as fake accounts in some coordinated way. A lot of this is also about forming partnerships. The tech companies here today work more closely together to share signals about what’s happening on the different platforms to be able to combat these threats, as well as working more closely with law enforcement and intelligence communities around the world.

Mark Zuckerberg: (01:52:40)
And the net result of that is that, over the last few years, we’ve taken down more than 100 networks that were potentially attempting to spread misinformation or interfere. A lot of them were coming from Russia or Iran, a growing number from China, as well. And at this point, I’m proud that our company and as well as the others in the industry, I think, have built systems that are very effective at this. We can’t stop countries like Russia from trying to interfere in an election. Only the US Government can really push back with the appropriate leverage to do that, but we have built up systems to make sure that we can identify much faster when they’re attempting to do that. And I think that that should give the America people a good amount of confidence leading into this election.

Maria Cantwell: (01:53:38)
And is it true that those entities are trying to find domestic sources to help with that misinformation?

Mark Zuckerberg: (01:53:45)
Senator, yes. The tactics of these different governments are certainly evolving, including trying to find people outside of their country and, in some cases, we’re seeing domestic interference operations, as well. And the systems have had to evolve to be able to identify and take those down, as well. Of the hundred or so networks that I’ve just cited that we took down, about half were domestic operations, at this point. And that’s in various countries around the world, not primarily in the US, but this is a global phenomenon that we need to make sure that we continue pushing forward aggressively on.

Maria Cantwell: (01:54:26)
Thank you, thank you. Mr. Pichai, I’d like to turn to you for a second because I do want information from Facebook on this point, too, but I’d like to turn for you. There’s information now from media organizations that it may be as much as 30% to 50% of Google ad revenue that broadcasters and newsprint are losing, somewhere between 30% and 50% of their revenue that they could be getting to newspapers and broadcasting, losing it to the formats that Google has, as it relates to their platform and ad information. Can you confirm what information you have about this and do you think that Google is taking ad revenue from these news sources in an unfair way?

Sundar Pichai: (01:55:15)
Senator, it’s an important topic. It’s a complex topic. I do think journalists [inaudible 01:55:20] rightfully have called attention to it, particularly local journalism is very important. The internet has been a tremendously disrupting force and the pandemic has exacerbated it. Today, as Google, I would make the case that we believe in raising news across our products because we realize the importance of journalism. We send a lot of traffic to news publishers. All the ad technology questions I’m getting asked today, we invest in our technology, share the majority of revenue back to publishers. We are investing in subscription products. We have committed $2 billion in new licensing over the next three years to [inaudible 01:56:00] organizations. We have set up local emergency fund through COVID for local journalistic institutions.

Sundar Pichai: (01:56:08)
I gave plenty of examples, but the underlying forces which are impacting the industry, which is the internet, and whether it’s Google, if not Google, advertise instead of finding [crosstalk 01:56:20]-

Maria Cantwell: (01:56:21)
Yeah. I don’t have a clock on me, Senator. I don’t know how much time I have, Mr. Pichai.

Chairman Wicker: (01:56:24)
You’re a minute and a half over. So let’s see [crosstalk 01:56:27].

Maria Cantwell: (01:56:27)
Okay. Well, I’ll just leave it with this. Mr. Pichai, you hit on the key word, majority. I don’t think that you return the majority of the revenue to these broadcast entities. I do think it’s a problem. Yes, they’ve had to make it through the transformation, which is a rocky transformation, but the message from today’s hearing is the free press needs to live and be supported by all of us. And we look forward to discussing how we can make sure that they get fair return on their value. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

Chairman Wicker: (01:56:55)
Thank you, Senator Cantwell. We will now take a five-minute recess and then we’ll begin. Most of our members have not yet had a chance to ask questions. The committee’s in recess for five minutes.

Chairman Wicker: (02:06:38)
Okay. This hearing will return to order and we understand that Senator Moran is next. So Sir, you are recognized.

Senator Moran: (02:06:50)
Chairman Wicker, thank you very much and thank you for you and Senator Cantwell hosting this hearing. Let me address, initially, the topic that seems to be primary today and then, if time, data privacy. Let me ask all three witnesses, how much money does your company spend annually on content moderation? How many people work, in general, in the area of content moderation, including by private contract? Let me just start with those two questions. Ultimately, I also want to ask you, how much money does your company spend in defending lawsuits stemming from user content on the platform?

Chairman Wicker: (02:07:33)
Okay. Mr. Zuckerberg, do you want to go first there?

Mark Zuckerberg: (02:07:38)
Senator, we have more than 35,000 people who work on content and safety review. And I believe our budget is multiple billions of dollars a year on this. I think upwards of three or maybe even more billion dollars a year, which is a greater amount that we’re spending on this than the whole revenue of our company was the year before we filed to go public in 2012.

Senator Moran: (02:08:13)
Thank you.

Chairman Wicker: (02:08:13)
Mr. Pichai.

Sundar Pichai: (02:08:18)
Senator, we use both a combination of human reviewers and AI moderation systems. We have well over 10,000 reviewers and we are investing there significantly. Not sure of the exact numbers, but I would say it’s north of over a billion dollars we spend on these things.

Senator Moran: (02:08:41)
Thank you.

Chairman Wicker: (02:08:42)
Mr. Dorsey.

Jack Dorsey: (02:08:45)
I don’t have the specific numbers, but we want to maintain agility between the people that we have working on this and also just building better technology to automate. So our goal is flexibility here.

Senator Moran: (02:08:58)
Let me ask the question again about how much would you estimate that your company’s currently spending on defending lawsuits related to user content.

Chairman Wicker: (02:09:08)
In the same order. Okay?

Mark Zuckerberg: (02:09:12)
Senator, I don’t know the answer to that off the top of my head, but I can get back to you.

Senator Moran: (02:09:18)
Thank you.

Sundar Pichai: (02:09:21)
Senator, we do spend a lot on legal lawsuits, but not sure what of it applies content-related issues, but happy to follow.

Senator Moran: (02:09:30)
Thank you.

Jack Dorsey: (02:09:32)
I don’t have those numbers.

Senator Moran: (02:09:34)
Let me use your answers to highlight something that I want to be a topic of our conversation as we debate this legislation. Whatever the numbers are, you indicate that they are significant. It’s an enormous amount of money and an enormous amount of employee time, contract labor time in dealing with modification of content. These efforts are expensive. And I would highlight for my colleagues on the committee that they will not be any less expensive, perhaps less in scale, but not less in cost, for startups and small businesses. And as we develop our policies in regard to this topic, I want to make certain that entrepreneurship startup businesses and small business are considered in what it would cost in their efforts to meet the kind of standards to operate in a sphere.

Senator Moran: (02:10:35)
Let me quickly turn to federal privacy. I chair the Consumer Data Privacy Security Act. We’ve tried for months, Senator Blumenthal and I, to develop a bipartisan piece of legislation. We were close, but unsuccessful in doing so. Let me ask Mr. Zuckerberg. Facebook entered into a consent order with the FTC in July of 2012 for violations of the FTC act and later agreed to pay a $5-billion penalty along with a robust settlement order in 2018, following the Cambridge Analytica incident that violated the 2012 order. My legislation will provide the FTC with first-time civil penalty authority. Do you think this type of enforcement tool for the FTC would better deter unfair, deceptive practices than the current enforcement regime?

Mark Zuckerberg: (02:11:30)
Senator, I would need to understand it in a little bit more detail before weighing in on this, but I think that the settlement that we have with the FTC, we’re going to be setting up an industry-leading privacy program. We have, I think, more than a thousand engineers working on the privacy program now. I know we’re basically implementing a program which is sort of the equivalent of Sarbanes-Oxley’s financial regulation around internal auditing and controls around privacy and protecting people’s data, as well. So I think that that settlement will be quite effective in ensuring that people’s data and privacy are protected.

Senator Moran: (02:12:19)
Mr. Pichai, Google YouTube’s $170-million settlement with the FTC and the State of New York for alleged violations of COPPA involved persistent identifiers. How should federal legislation address persistent identifiers for consumers over the age of 13?

Sundar Pichai: (02:12:42)
Senator, today, we have done two things as a company. We have invested in one of a kind special product called YouTube Kids where content can be safe for kids. Obviously, on the YouTube main product, today, the way internet gets used, families do view content and part of our settlement was adapting so that they can accommodate for those use cases, as well. Privacy is one of the most important areas we invest in as a company. Have thousands of engineers working on it. We believe in giving users control, choice, and transparency. And anytime we associate data with users, we are transparent. They can go see what data is there. We give them delete controls. We give data portability options.

Sundar Pichai: (02:13:28)
And just last year, we announced an important change by which, for all new users, we delete the data automatically without them needing to do anything. And we encourage users to go through privacy checkup or a billion people have gone through their privacy checkups and it’s an area where we are investing significantly.

Senator Moran: (02:13:48)
Thank you. Chairman, I don’t see my time clock. Do I have time for one more?

Chairman Wicker: (02:13:51)
You really don’t. Your time has just expired, but thank you very much for-

Senator Moran: (02:13:56)
Mr. Chairman, thank you.

Chairman Wicker: (02:13:57)
Thank you so much. Senator Markey.

Senator Markey: (02:14:01)
Thank you, Mr. Chairman, very much. Today, Trump, his Republican allies in Congress and his propaganda parents on Fox News are pedaling a myth. And today, my Republican colleagues on the Senate Commerce Committee are simply doing the president’s bidding. Let’s be clear. Republicans can and should join us in addressing the real problems posed by big tech, but instead my Republican colleagues are determined to feed a false narrative about anti-conservative bias meant to intimidate big tech so it will stand idly by and allow interference in our election again.

Senator Markey: (02:14:49)
Here’s the truth. Violence and hate speech online are real problems. Anti [inaudible 02:14:56] bias [inaudible 02:14:58] a problem. Our foreign attempts to influence our election with disinformation are real problems. Anti-conservative bias is not a problem. The big tech business model, which puts profits ahead of people, is a real problem. Anti-conservative bias is not a problem. The issue is not that the companies before us today are taking too many posts down. The issue is that they’re leaving too many dangerous posts up. In fact, amplifying harmful content so that it spreads like wildfire and torches our democracy.

Senator Markey: (02:15:41)
Mr. Zuckerberg, when President Trump posted on Facebook that, “When the looting starts, the shooting starts,” you failed to take down that post. Within a day, the post had hundreds of thousands of shares and likes on Facebook. Since then, the President has gone on national television and told a hate group to, quote, “stand by.” And he has repeatedly refused to commit that he will accept the election results. Mr. Zuckerberg, can you commit that, if the president goes on Facebook and encourages violence after election results are announced, that you will make sure your company’s algorithms don’t spread that content and you will immediately remove those messages?

Mark Zuckerberg: (02:16:32)
Senator, yes. Incitement of violence is against our policy and there are not exceptions to that, including for politicians.

Senator Markey: (02:16:42)
There are exceptions, did you say?

Mark Zuckerberg: (02:16:44)
There are not exceptions.

Senator Markey: (02:16:46)
There are no exceptions, which is very important because, obviously, there could be messages that are sent that could throw our democracy into chaos. And a lot of it can be and will be created if social media sites do not police what the president says. Mr. Zuckerberg, if President Trump shares Russian or Iranian disinformation, lying about the outcome of the election, can you commit that you will make sure your algorithms do not amplify that content and that you will immediately take that content down?

Mark Zuckerberg: (02:17:28)
Senator, we have a policy in place that prevents any candidate or campaign from prematurely declaring victory or trying to de-legitimize the result of the election. And what we will do in that case is we will append some factual information to any post that is trying to do that. So if someone says that they won the election when the result isn’t in, for example, we will append a piece of information to that saying that official election results are not in yet. So that way, anyone who sees that post will see that context in line.

Mark Zuckerberg: (02:18:06)
And also, if one of the candidates tries to prematurely declare victory or cite an incorrect result, we have a precaution that we’ve built in to put at the top of the Facebook app, for everyone who signs in in the US, information about the accurate US election voting results. I think that this is a very important issue to make sure that people can get accurate information about the results of the election.

Senator Markey: (02:18:31)
It cannot be stated as being anything less than critically important. Democracy could be seriously challenged, beginning next Tuesday evening and for several days afterwards, maybe longer. And a lot of responsibility is going to be on the shoulders of Facebook and our other witnesses today. Mr. Zuckerberg, if President Trump uses his Facebook account to call on private citizens to patrol the polls on election day, which would constitute illegal voter intimidation and violation of the Voting Rights Act, will you commit that your algorithms will not spread that content and that you will immediately take that content down?

Mark Zuckerberg: (02:19:15)
Senator, my understanding is that content like what you’re saying would violate our voter suppression policies and would come down.

Senator Markey: (02:19:25)
Okay. Again, the stakes are going to be very high and we’re going to take that as a commitment that you will do that because, obviously, we would otherwise have a serious question mark placed over our elections. We know Facebook cares about one thing, keeping users glued to its platform. One of the ways you do that is with Facebook Groups. Mr. Zuckerberg, in 2017, you announced the goal of one billion users joining Facebook Groups. Unfortunately, these forum pages have become breeding grounds for hate, echo chambers …

Senator Markey: (02:20:03)
Foreign pages have become breeding grounds for hate, echo chambers of misinformation and venues for coordination of violence. Again, Facebook is not only failing to take these pages down, this actively spreading these pages and helping these groups’ recruitment efforts. Facebook’s own internal research found that 64% of all extremist group joins are due to Facebook’s recommendation tools. Mr. Zuckerberg will you commit to stopping all group recommendations on your platform until US election results are certified? Yes or no?

Mark Zuckerberg: (02:20:37)
Senator, we have taken the step of stopping recommendations and groups for all political content or social issue groups as a precaution for this. But just to clarify one thing, the vast, vast majority of groups and communities that people are a part of are not extremist organizations or even political. They’re interest-based and communities that I think are quite helpful and healthy for people to be a part of. I do think we need to make sure that our recommendation algorithm doesn’t encourage people to join extremist groups. That’s something that we have already taken a number of steps on, and I agree with you is very important that we continue to make progress on.

Senator Markey: (02:21:25)
Well, your algorithms are promoting online spaces that foster political violence. At the very least you should disable those algorithms that are recruiting users during this most sensitive period of our democracy.

Chairman Wicker: (02:21:37)
Thank you.

Senator Markey: (02:21:38)
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

Chairman Wicker: (02:21:38)
Thank you, Senator Markey. Mr. Zuckerberg, let me just ask you this. In these scenarios that Senator Markey was posing, the action of Facebook would not be a function of algorithms in those cases, would it?

Mark Zuckerberg: (02:21:56)
Senator, I think that you’re right and that that’s a good clarification. A lot of this is more about enforcement of content policies. Some of the questions were about algorithms. I think group ranking is an algorithm, but broadly I think a lot of it is content enforcement.

Chairman Wicker: (02:22:14)
Thank you for clarifying that. Senator Blackburn, you are recognized.

Senator Marsha Blackburn: (02:22:21)
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And I want to thank each of you for coming to us voluntarily. We appreciate that. There are undoubtedly benefits to using your platforms. As you have heard, everyone mentioned today, there are also some concerns, which you’re also hearing. Privacy, free speech, politics, religion. And I have chuckled as I’ve sat here listening to you all. That book Valley of the Gods. It reminds me that you all are in control of what people are going to hear, what they’re going to see. And therefore you have the ability to dictate what information is coming in to them. And I think it’s important to realize, you’re set up as an information source, not as a news media. And so therefore, censoring things that you all think unseemly may be something that is not unseemly to people in other parts of the country. But let me ask each of you very quickly. Do any of you have any content moderators who are conservatives? Mr. Dorsey first? Yes or no?

Jack Dorsey: (02:23:35)
But we don’t ask political ideology when we’re hiring.

Senator Marsha Blackburn: (02:23:41)
Okay. You don’t. Okay, Mr. Zuckerberg.

Mark Zuckerberg: (02:23:45)
Senator, we don’t ask for their ideology, but just statistically, there are 35,000 of them in cities and places all across the country and world. So I would imagine, yes.

Senator Marsha Blackburn: (02:23:55)
Mr. Pichai.

Sundar Pichai: (02:23:57)
The answer would be yes, because we hire them through the United States.

Senator Marsha Blackburn: (02:24:02)
Okay. All right. And looking at some of your censoring. Mr. Dorsey, you all have censored Joe Biden zero times. You have censored Donald Trump 65 times. So I want to go back to Senator Gardner’s questions. You claimed earlier that the Holocaust denial and threats of Jewish genocide by Iran’s terrorist Ayatollah don’t violate Twitter’s so-called rules and that it’s important for world leaders, like Iran’s terrorist leader to have a platform on Twitter. So let me ask you this. Who elected the Ayatollah?

Jack Dorsey: (02:24:47)
I don’t know.

Senator Marsha Blackburn: (02:24:49)
You don’t know. Okay. I think this is called a dictatorship. So are people in Iran allowed to use Twitter or does the country whose leader you claim deserves a platform, ban them from doing so?

Jack Dorsey: (02:25:07)
Ideally, we would love for the people of Iran to use Twitter.

Senator Marsha Blackburn: (02:25:10)
Well, Iran bans Twitter. And Mr. Zuckerberg, I know you are aware, they ban Facebook also. So, Mr. Dorsey is Donald Trump a world leader?

Jack Dorsey: (02:25:22)
Yes.

Senator Marsha Blackburn: (02:25:23)
Okay. So it would be important for world leaders to have access to your platform, correct?

Jack Dorsey: (02:25:30)
Correct.

Senator Marsha Blackburn: (02:25:32)
And so why did you deny that platform via censorship to the US president?

Jack Dorsey: (02:25:39)
We haven’t censored the US president.

Senator Marsha Blackburn: (02:25:41)
Oh yes you have. How many posts from Iran’s terrorist Ayatollah have you censored? How many posts from Vladimir Putin have you censored?

Jack Dorsey: (02:25:52)
We have labeled tweets of world leaders. We have a policy around not taking down the content, but simply adding more context around it.

Senator Marsha Blackburn: (02:26:00)
Okay. And the US president, you have censored 65 times. You testified that you’re worried about disinformation and election interference. That is something we all worry about. And of course, for about a hundred years, foreign sources have been trying to influence US policy and US elections. Now, they’re onto your platforms. They see this as a way to get access to the American people. So, given your refusal to sensor or ban foreign dictators while regularly censoring the president, aren’t you, at this very moment, personally responsible for flooding the nation with foreign disinformation?

Jack Dorsey: (02:26:48)
Just to be clear, we have not censored the president. We have not taken the tweets down that you’re referencing. They have more context and a label applied to them and we do the same for leaders around the world.

Senator Marsha Blackburn: (02:27:00)
Okay. Let me ask you this. Do you share any of your data mining? And this is to each of the three of you. Do you share any of your data mining with the Democrat National Committee?

Jack Dorsey: (02:27:15)
I’m not sure what you mean by the question, but we have a data platform that we have a number of customers. I’m not sure of the customer list.

Senator Marsha Blackburn: (02:27:26)
Okay. And you said you don’t keep lists. I made that note. I found that [crosstalk 02:27:32].

Jack Dorsey: (02:27:29)
Well, keep lists of accounts that we watch. We don’t keep a list of accounts that we watch.

Senator Marsha Blackburn: (02:27:36)
Yeah. Okay. All right. Okay. Mr. Pichai, is Blake Lemoine, one of your engineers, still working with you?

Sundar Pichai: (02:27:47)
Senator, I’m familiar with this name as a name. I’m not sure whether he’s currently an employee.

Senator Marsha Blackburn: (02:27:53)
Okay. Well, he has had very unkind things to say about me. And I was just wondering if you all had still kept him working there. Also, I want to mention with you, Mr. Pichai, the way you all have censored some things. Google searches for Joe Biden generated approximately 30,000 impressions for Breitbart links. This was on May one. And after May 5th, both the impressions and the clicks went to zero. I hope that what you all realize from this hearing is that there is a pattern. You may not believe it exists, but there is a pattern of subjective manipulation of the information that is available to people from your platforms.

Senator Marsha Blackburn: (02:28:50)
What has driven additional attention to this, is the fact that more of a family’s functional life is now being conducted online. Because of this, more people are realizing that you are picking winners and losers. Mr. Zuckerberg, years ago, you said Facebook functioned more like a government than a company. And you’re beginning to insert yourself into these issues of free speech. Mr. Zuckerberg, with my time that is left, let me ask you this. You mentioned early in your remarks that you saw some things as competing equities. Is the First Amendment a given right, or is that a competing equity?

Mark Zuckerberg: (02:29:55)
[inaudible 02:29:55] I believe strongly in free expression. Sorry if I was on mute there. But I do think that like all equities, it is balanced against other equities, like safety and privacy. And even the people who believe in the strongest possible interpretation of the First Amendment, still believe that there should be some limits on speech when it could cause imminent risk of physical harm. The famous example that’s used is that you can’t shout fire in a crowded theater. So I think that getting those equities and the balance right-

Senator Marsha Blackburn: (02:30:31)
Right. My challenge is [crosstalk 02:30:32].

Mark Zuckerberg: (02:30:32)
Is the challenge that we face.

Chairman Wicker: (02:30:33)
The time has expired. Perhaps we can follow up.

Senator Marsha Blackburn: (02:30:36)
Well, we believe in the First Amendment and we are going to. Yes, we will have questions to follow up. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can’t see the clock.

Chairman Wicker: (02:30:46)
Thank you. Senator Udall.

Senator Tom Udall: (02:30:49)
Mr. Chairman, thank you. And Senator Cantwell, really appreciate this hearing. I want to start by laying out three facts. The US intelligence community has found that the Russian government is intent on election interference in the United States. They did it in 2016. They’re doing it in 2020. The intelligence also says they want to help President Trump. They did so in 2016. The president doesn’t like this to be said, but it’s a fact. We also know that the Russian strategy, this time around, is going after Hunter Biden. So I recognize that the details of how to handle misinformation on the internet are tough. But I think that companies like Twitter and Facebook that took action to not be a part of a suspected Russian election interference operation, were doing the right thing. And let me be clear. No one believes these companies represent the law or represent the public.

Senator Tom Udall: (02:31:55)
When we say work the refs, the US government is the referee. The FCC, the Congress, the Presidency, and the Supreme Court are the referees. It’s very dangerous for President Trump, Justice Thomas and Republicans in Congress and at the FCC to threaten new federal laws in order to force social media companies to amplify false claims to conspiracy theories and disinformation campaigns. And my question to all three of you, do the Russian government and other foreign nations continue to attempt to use your company’s platforms to spread disinformation and influence the 2020 election?

Senator Tom Udall: (02:32:44)
Can you briefly describe what you are seeing? Please start Mr. Dorsey, and then Mr. Pichai. And Mr. Zuckerberg, you gave an answer partially on this. I’d like you to expand on that answer. Thank you.

Jack Dorsey: (02:33:00)
Yes. So we do continue to see interference. We recently disclosed actions we took on both Russia and actions originating out of Iran. We’ve made those disclosures public. We can share those with your team. But this remains, as you’ve heard from others on the panel and as Mark has detailed, one of our highest priorities and something we want to make sure that we are focused on eliminating as much platform manipulation as possible.

Sundar Pichai: (02:33:38)
Senator, we do continue to see coordinated influence operation at times. We’ve been very vigilant. We appreciate the cooperation we get from intelligence agencies. And as companies, we are sharing information. To give you an example, and we publish transparency reports, in June, we identified efforts, one from Iran group APD 35 targeting the Trump campaign. One from China, a group APD 31 targeting the Biden campaign. Most of these were phishing attempts but our spam filters were able to remove most of the emails out from reaching users. But we notified intelligence agencies. And that’s an example of the kind of activity we see. And I think it’s an area where you would need strong cooperation with government agencies moving forward.

Chairman Wicker: (02:34:32)
Mr. Zuckerberg.

Mark Zuckerberg: (02:34:35)
Senator, like Jack and Sundar, we also see continued attempts by Russia and other countries, especially Iran and China to run these kind of information operations. We also see an increase in domestic operations around the world. Fortunately, we’ve been able to build partnerships across the industry, both with the companies here today and with law enforcement and the intelligence community, to be able to share signals, to identify these threats sooner. And along the lines of what you mentioned earlier, one of the threats that the FBI has alerted our companies and the public to, was the possibility of a hack and leak operation in the days or weeks leading up to this election.

Mark Zuckerberg: (02:35:27)
So you had both the public testimony from the FBI and in private meetings alerts that were given to at least our company, I assume the others as well, that suggested that we be on high alert and sensitivity that if a trove of documents appeared that we should view that with suspicion, that it might be part of a foreign manipulation attempt. So that’s what we’re seeing. And I’m happy to go into more detail as well, if that’s helpful.

Senator Tom Udall: (02:36:00)
Okay. Thank you very much. This one is a really simple question. I think a yes or no. Will you continue to push back against this kind of foreign interference, even if powerful Republicans threaten to take official action against your companies? Mr. Zuckerberg, why don’t we start with you and work the other way back?

Mark Zuckerberg: (02:36:20)
Senator, absolutely. This is incredibly important for our democracy and we’re committed to doing this work

Sundar Pichai: (02:36:29)
Senator, absolutely. Protecting our civic and democratic processes is fundamental to what we do. We will do everything we can.

Jack Dorsey: (02:36:38)
Yes. And we will continue to work and push back on any manipulation of the platform.

Senator Tom Udall: (02:36:45)
Thank you for those answers. Mr. Zuckerberg do Facebook and other social media networks have an obligation to prevent disinformation and malicious actors spreading conspiracy theories, dangerous health disinformation, and hate speech, even if preventing its spread means less traffic and potentially less advertising revenue for Facebook?

Mark Zuckerberg: (02:37:12)
Senator, in general, yes. I think that for foreign countries trying to interfere in democracy, I think that that is a relatively clear cut question where I would hope that no one disagrees that we don’t want foreign countries or governments trying to interfere in our elections, whether through disinformation or fake accounts or anything like that. Around health misinformation, we’re in the middle of a pandemic, it’s a health emergency. I certainly think that this is a high sensitivity time. So, we’re treating with extra sensitivity any misinformation that could lead to harm around COVID that would lead people to not get the right treatments or to not take the right security precautions. We do draw a distinction between harmful misinformation and information that’s just wrong. And we take a harder line and more enforcement against harmful misinformation.

Chairman Wicker: (02:38:09)
Thank you.

Senator Tom Udall: (02:38:15)
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

Chairman Wicker: (02:38:16)
Thank you Senator Udall. Senator Capito.

Senator Shelley Moore Capito: (02:38:16)
Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thank all of you for being with us today. I would say that any time that we can get the three of you in front of the American people, whether it’s several days before an election or several days after, is extremely useful and can be very productive. So I appreciate the three of you coming and the committee holding this hearing.

Senator Shelley Moore Capito: (02:38:37)
As we’ve heard, Americans turn every day to your platforms for a lot of different information. I would like to give a shout out to Mr. Zuckerberg because the last time he was in front of our committee, I had asked him to share the plenty of Facebook into rural America and help us with our fiber deployments into rural America. And when we see in this COVID environment, we see how important that is. And he followed through with that. I would like to thank him and his company for helping partner with us in West Virginia to get more people connected. And I think that is an essential. I would make a suggestion as well. Maybe when we get to the end, when we talk about fines, what I think we could do with these millions and billion dollar fines that some of your companies have been penalized on, we could make a great jump and get to that last household. But the topic today is on objectionable content and how you make those judgments. So quickly, each one of you, I know that in the Section 230, it says that the term is objectionable content or otherwise objectionable. Would you be in favor of redefining that more specifically. That’s awful broad. And that’s where I think some of these questions become very difficult to answer. So we’ll start with Mr. Dorsey on how do you define otherwise objectionable and objectionable and how can we improve that definition so that it’s easier to follow?

Jack Dorsey: (02:40:06)
Well, our interpretation of objectionable is anything that is limiting potentially the speech of others. All of our policies are focused on making sure that people feel safe to express themselves. And when we see abuse, harassment, misleading information, these are all threats against that. And it makes people want to leave the internet, makes people want to leave these conversations online. So that is what we’re trying to protect, is making sure that people feel safe enough and free enough to express themselves in whatever way they wish.

Senator Shelley Moore Capito: (02:40:42)
So this a follow-up to that. Much has been talked about the blocking of the New York Post. Do you have an instance, or for instance, of when you’ve actually blocked somebody that would be considered politically liberal on the other side, in the political realm and in this country? Do you have an example of that to offset where the New York post criticism has come from?

Jack Dorsey: (02:41:04)
Well, we don’t have an understanding of the ideology of any one particular account, and that is also not how our policies are written or enforcement taken. So I’m sure there are a number of examples. But that is not our focus. We’re looking purely at the violations of our policies, taking action against that.

Senator Shelley Moore Capito: (02:41:23)
Yeah. Mr. Zuckerberg, how would you define otherwise objectionable, objectionable? Not how would you define it, but how would you refine the definition of that to make it more objective than subjective?

Mark Zuckerberg: (02:41:39)
Senator, thank you. When I look at the written language in Section 230 and the content that we think shouldn’t be allowed on our services, some of the things that we bucket in otherwise objectionable content today include general bullying and harassment of people on the platform. So somewhat similar to what Jack was just talking about a minute ago. And I would worry that some of the proposals that suggest getting rid of the phrase, otherwise objectionable from Section 230 would limit our ability to remove bullying and harassing content from our platforms, which I think would make them worse places for people. So I think we need to be very careful in how we think through that.

Senator Shelley Moore Capito: (02:42:24)
Well, thank you. Mr. Pichai.

Sundar Pichai: (02:42:28)
Senator, maybe there I would add is that the content is so dynamic. YouTube gets 500 hours per minute of video uploaded. On an average of any day, search 15% of queries, we have never seen before. To give you an example, a few years ago, there was an issue around teenagers consuming Tide Pods. And it was a kind of issue which was causing real harm. When we run into those situations, we are able to act with certainty and protect our users. The Christchurch shooting, where there was a live shooter, live streaming horrific images, it was a learning moment for all our platforms. We were able to intervene, again with certainty. And so that’s what otherwise objectionable allows. And, I think that flexibility is what allows us to focus. We always state with clear policies, what we are doing, but I think it gives platforms of all sizes flexibilities to protect our users.

Senator Shelley Moore Capito: (02:43:28)
Thank you. I think, I’m hearing from all three of you, really, that the definition is fairly acceptable to you all. In my view, sometimes I think it can go too much to the eye of the beholder type… The beholder being either a you all, or your reviewers or your AI and then it gets into a region where maybe it becomes so very subjective.

Senator Shelley Moore Capito: (02:43:50)
I want to move to a different topic because in my personal conversations with at least two of you, you’ve expressed the need to have the 230 protections because of the protections that it gives to the small innovators. Well, you sit in front of us. And I think all of us are wondering, how many small innovators and what kind of market share could they possibly have when we see the dominance of the three of you? I understand you started as small innovators when you first started. I get that. How can a small innovator really break through? And what does 230 really have to do with the ability of a… I’m skeptical on the argument, quite frankly. So, whoever wants to answer that. Mr. Zuckerberg, do you want to start?

Mark Zuckerberg: (02:44:39)
Sure, Senator. I do think that if, when we were getting started with building Facebook, if we were subject to a larger number of content lawsuits, because 230 didn’t exist, that would have likely made it prohibitive for me as a college student in a dorm room to get started with this enterprise. And I think that it may make sense to modify 230 at this point, just to make sure that it’s still working as intended. But I think it’s extremely important that we make sure that for smaller companies that are getting started, the cost of having to comply with any regulation is either waived until a certain scale, or it is, at a minimum, taken into account as a serious factor to make sure that we’re not preventing the next set of ideas from getting built.

Chairman Wicker: (02:45:32)
Thank you. Thank you, Senator.

Senator Shelley Moore Capito: (02:45:33)
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

Chairman Wicker: (02:45:34)
Thank you. Senator Baldwin.

Senator Tammy Baldwin: (02:45:34)
Thank you. I’d like to begin by making two points. I believe the Republicans have called this hearing in order to support a false narrative fabricated by the president to help his reelection prospects. And number two, I believe that the tech companies here today need to take more action, not less, to combat misinformation, including misinformation on the election, misinformation on the COVID-19 pandemic and misinformation and posts meant to incite violence. And that should include misinformation spread by President Trump on their platforms.

Senator Tammy Baldwin: (02:46:25)
So I want to start with asking the Committee Clerk to bring up my first slide. Mr. Dorsey, I appreciate the work that Twitter has done to flag or even take down false or misleading information about COVID-19, such as this October 11th tweet by the president claiming he has immunity from the virus after contracting it and recovering, contrary to what the medical community tells us.

Senator Tammy Baldwin: (02:46:59)
Just yesterday morning, the president tweeted this, that the media is incorrectly focused on the pandemic and that our nation is quote rounding the turn on COVID-19. In fact, according to Johns Hopkins University, in the past week, the seven day national average of new cases reached its highest level ever. And in my home state of Wisconsin, case counts continue to reach record levels. Yesterday, Wisconsin set a new record with 64 deaths and 5,462 new confirmed cases of COVID-19.

Senator Tammy Baldwin: (02:47:39)
That is not rounding the turn, but it’s also not a tweet that was flagged or taken down. Mr. Dorsey, given the volume of misleading posts about COVID-19 out there. Do you prioritize removal based on something like the reach or audience of a particular user of Twitter?

Jack Dorsey: (02:48:02)
I could be mistaken, but it looks like the tweet that you showed actually did have a label pointing to both of them, pointing to our COVID resource hub in our interface. So in regards to misleading information, we have policies against manipulated media in support of public health and COVID information and election interference and civic integrity. And we take action on it. In some cases it’s labeling, in some cases it’s removal.

Senator Tammy Baldwin: (02:48:40)
What additional steps are you planning to take to address dangerously misleading tweets like the president rounding the turn tweet?

Jack Dorsey: (02:48:52)
We want to make sure that we are giving people as much information as possible and that ultimately we’re connecting the dots when they see information like that, that they have an easy way to get an official resource or many more viewpoints on what they’re seeing. So we’ll continue to refine our policy. We’ll continue to refine our enforcement around misleading information, and we’re looking deeply at how we can evolve our product to do the same.

Senator Tammy Baldwin: (02:49:27)
Mr. Zuckerberg, I want to turn to you to talk about the ongoing issue of right-wing militias using Facebook as a platform to organize and promote violence. Could the Committee Clerk please bring up my second slide? On August 25th, a self-described militia group called Kenosha Guard created a Facebook event page entitled Armed Citizens to Protect our Lives and Property, encouraging armed individuals to go to Kenosha and quote defend the city during a period of civil unrest, following the police shooting of Jacob Blake. That evening, a 17- year-old from Illinois did just that and ended up killing two protesters and seriously injuring a third. Commenters in this group wrote that they wanted to kill looters and rioters and switch to real bullets and put a stop to these rioting impetuous children.

Senator Tammy Baldwin: (02:50:37)
While Facebook has already had a policy in place banning militia groups, this page remained in place. According to press reports, Facebook received more than 450 complaints about this page, but your content moderators did not remove it. Something you subsequently called an operational mistake. Recently, as you heard earlier in questions, the alleged plot to kidnap Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer and the potential for intimidation or even violence at voting locations, show that the proliferation of the threat of violence on Facebook remains a very real and urgent problem.

Senator Tammy Baldwin: (02:51:24)
Mr. Zuckerberg, in light of the operational mistake around Kenosha, what steps has Facebook taken to ensure that your platform is not being used to promote more of this type of violence?

Mark Zuckerberg: (02:51:38)
Thank you, Senator. This is a big area of concern for me personally, and for the company. We’ve strengthened our policies to prohibit any militarized social movement. So any kind of militia like this. We’ve also banned conspiracy networks. So QAnon being the largest example of that. That is completely prohibited on Facebook at this point, which in this period where I’m personally, I’m worried about the potential of increased civil unrest, making sure that those groups can’t organize on Facebook may cut off some legitimate uses. But I think that they will also preclude greater potential for organizing any harm. And by making the policy simpler, we will also make it so that there are fewer mistakes in content moderation. So I feel like we’re in a much stronger place on the policies on this at this point.

Chairman Wicker: (02:52:43)
Thank you, Senator Baldwin. Senator Lee.

Senator Mike Lee: (02:52:48)
Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I want to read a few quotes from each of you, each of our three witnesses and from your companies. And then I may ask for a response. So, Mr. Zuckerberg, this one is from you. You said, quote, “We’ve built Facebook to be a platform for all ideas. Our community’s success depends on everyone feeling comfortable, sharing what they want. It doesn’t make sense for our mission or for our business to suppress political content or prevent anyone from saying what matters most to them.” You said that I believe on May, 18, 2016.

Senator Mike Lee: (02:53:27)
Mr. Dorsey, on September 5th, 2018, you said, “Let me be clear about one important and foundational fact. Twitter does not use political ideology to make any decisions.” Mr. Pichai, on October 28th, 2020, you said, “Let me be clear. We approach our work without political bias, full stop.”

Senator Mike Lee: (02:53:52)
Now, these quotes make me think that there is a good case to be made that you’re engaging in unfair or deceptive trade practices in violation of federal law. I see these quotes where each of you tell consumers and the public about your business practices. But then you seem to do the opposite and take censorship related actions against the president, against members of his administration, against the New York Post, The Babylon Bee, The Federalist, pro-life groups. And there are countless other examples. In fact, I think the trend is clear that you almost always censor. And when I use the word Censor here, I mean block content, fact-check or label content, or demonetize websites of conservative, Republican, or pro-life individuals or groups or companies, contradicting your commercial promises. But I don’t see this suppression of high-profile liberal commentators. So for example, have you ever censored a Democratic senator?

Senator Mike Lee: (02:55:03)
So, for example, have you ever censored a democratic Senator? How about president Obama? How about a democratic presidential candidate? How about Planned Parenthood or NARAL or Emily’s List? Mr. Zuckerberg, Mr. Dorsey, and Mr. Pichai, can any of you, and let’s go in that order, Zuckerberg, Dorsey and then Pichai, can you name for me one high profile person or entity from a liberal ideology, who you have censored and what particular action you took?

Mark Zuckerberg: (02:55:38)
Senator, I can get you a list of some more of this, but there are certainly many examples that your democratic colleagues object to when fact checker might label something as false that they disagree with or they’re not able to-

Senator Mike Lee: (02:55:55)
Yeah, I get that. I get that. I just want to be clear. I’m just asking you if you can name for me one high profile liberal person or company who you have censored. I understand that you’re saying that there are complaints on both sides, but I just want one name of one person or one entity.

Mark Zuckerberg: (02:56:18)
Senator, I need to think about it and get you more of a list. But there are certainly many, many issues on both sides of the aisle, where people think we’re making content moderation decisions that they disagree with.

Senator Mike Lee: (02:56:31)
I got that. And I think everybody on this call could agree that they could identify at least five, maybe 10, maybe more, high profile, conservative examples. But what about you, Mr. Dorsey?

Jack Dorsey: (02:56:45)
We can give a more exhaustive list, but again, we don’t have an understanding of political [inaudible 02:56:52] of our accounts, but-

Senator Mike Lee: (02:56:54)
I’m not asking for an exhaustive list, I’m asking for a single example, one, just one individual, one entity, anyone.

Jack Dorsey: (02:57:00)
We’ve taken action on tweets from members of the house for election miss info.

Senator Mike Lee: (02:57:05)
Can you identify an example?

Jack Dorsey: (02:57:08)
Yes. Two Democratic Congresspeople-

Senator Mike Lee: (02:57:14)
What are their names?

Jack Dorsey: (02:57:15)
I’ll get those names to you.

Senator Mike Lee: (02:57:17)
Great. Great, Mr. Pichai, how about you?

Sundar Pichai: (02:57:21)
Senator, I’ll give specific examples, but let me step back. We don’t censor, we have moderation policies which we apply equally. To give you an example-

Senator Mike Lee: (02:57:30)
I get that. I use the word censor as a term of art there, and I define that term. Again, I’m not asking for a comprehensive list, I want a name, any name.

Sundar Pichai: (02:57:40)
We have turned down ads from Priorities USA, from vice-president Biden’s campaign. We have had compliance issues with World Socialist Review, which is a left-leaning publication. We can give you several examples, but for example, we have a graphic content policy. We don’t allow for ads that show graphic violent content in those ads. And we have taken down ads on both sides of the campaign and I gave you a couple of examples.

Senator Mike Lee: (02:58:07)
Okay. At least with respect to Mr. Zuckerberg and Mr. Dorsey and I would point out that with respect to Mr. Pichai, those are not nearly as high profile. I don’t know if I can identify anyone picked at random from the public, even picked at random from the public as far as members of the political active community in either political party who could identify those right off the top of the bat. There is a disparity between the censorship and again, I’m using that as a term of art, as I’ve defined it a moment ago, between the censorship of conservative and liberal points of view. And it’s an enormous disparity. Now you have the right, I want to be very clear about this, you have every single right to set your own terms of service and to interpret them and to make decisions about violations, but given the disparate impact of who gets censored on your platforms, it seems that you’re either one, not enforcing your terms of service equally, or alternatively two, that you’re writing your standards to target conservative viewpoints.

Senator Mike Lee: (02:59:15)
You certainly have the right to operate your own platform, but you also have to be transparent about your actions, at least in the sense that you can’t promise certain corporate behavior and then deceive customers through contradictory actions that just blatantly contradict what you’ve stated as your corporate business model or as your policy. So Mr. Zuckerberg and Mr. Dorsey, if Facebook is still a platform for all ideas, and if Twitter, “does not use political ideology to make decisions,” then do you state before this committee, for the record, that you always apply your terms of service equally to all of your users?

Mark Zuckerberg: (03:00:02)
Senator, our principle is to stand for free expression and to be a platform for all ideas. I certainly don’t think we have any intentional examples where we’re trying to enforce our policies in a way that is anything other than fair and consistent. But it’s also a big company, so I get that there are probably mistakes that are made from time to time. But our North Star, and what we intend to do, is to be a platform for all ideas and to give everyone a voice.

Senator Mike Lee: (03:00:35)
Okay. I appreciate that. I understand what you’re saying about intentional examples of a big company, but again, there is a disparate impact. There is a disparate impact that’s unmistakable, as evidenced by the fact that neither you nor Jack could identify a single example. Mr. Dorsey, how do you answer that question?

Chairman Wicker: (03:00:50)
Brief answer please, Mr. Dorsey.

Jack Dorsey: (03:00:53)
Yes. So we operate our enforcement in our policy, without an understanding of political ideology. Anytime we find examples of bias in how people operate our systems or our algorithms, we remove it. And as Mark mentioned, there are checkpoints in these companies and in these frameworks and we do need more transparency around them and how they work. And we do need a much more straightforward and quick and efficient appeals process, to give us a further checkpoint from the public.

Chairman Wicker: (03:01:28)
Thank you, Senator Lee. Senator Duckworth.

Senator Duckworth: (03:01:32)
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I’ve devoted my life to public service, to upholding a sacred oath to support and defend the constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic. And I have to be honest, it makes my blood boil and it also breaks my heart a little as I watched my Republican colleagues, just days before an election, sink down to the level of Donald Trump. By placing the selfish interest of Donald Trump ahead of the health of our democracy, Senate Republicans, whether they realize it or not, are weakening our national security and providing aid to our adversaries. As my late friend, Congressman Cummings often reminded us, we’re better than this. Look, our democracy is under attack right now. Every American, every member of Congress should be committed to defending the integrity of our elections from hostile foreign interference.

Senator Duckworth: (03:02:23)
Despite all the recent talk of great power competition, our adversaries know they still cannot defeat us on a conventional battlefield. Yet meanwhile, the members of the United States military and our dedicated civil servants, are working around the clock in the cyber domain to counter hostile actors, such as Iran, China, and Russia. And they do this while the Commander in Chief cowers in fear of Russia and stubbornly refuses to take any action to criticize or warn Russia against endangering our troops. I have confidence in the United States armed forces, intelligence community, and civil servants. Their effective performance explains why our foreign adversaries have sought alternative avenues to attacking our nation. Afraid to face us in conventional military or diplomatic ways, they look for unconventional means to weaken our democracy and they realize that social media could be the exhaust port of our democracy. Social media is so pervasive in the daily lives of Americans and traditional media outlets, that it can be weaponized to manipulate the public discourse and destabilize our institutions. After Russia was incredibly successful in disrupting our democracy four years ago, all of our adversaries learned a chilling lesson, social media companies can not be trusted to put patriotism above profit. Facebook and Twitter, utterly failed to hinder Russia’s sweeping and systemic interference in our 2016 election, which use the platforms to infiltrate our communities, spread disinformation and turn Americans against one another. Of course, the situation has grown far worse today as evidenced by today’s partisan sham hearing. While corporations may plead ignorance prior to the 2016 election, president Trump and his Republican enablers in the Senate have no such excuse. Senate Republicans cut a deal to become the party of Trump and now they find themselves playing a very dangerous game. By encouraging Russia’s illegal hacking, by serving as the spreaders and promoters of disinformation cooked up by foreign intelligence services and by falsely claiming censorship when responsible actors attempt to prevent hostile foreign adversaries from interfering in our elections. Senate Republicans insult the efforts of true patriots working to counter maligned interference and weaken our security.

Senator Duckworth: (03:04:49)
This committee is playing politics at a time when responsible public officials should be doing everything to preserve confidence in our system of elections and system of government. The reckless actions of Donald Trump and Senate Republicans do not let technology companies off the hook. None of the companies testifying before our committee today are helpless in the face of threats to our democracy, small D democracy. Federal law provides your respective companies with authority to counter foreign disinformation and counter-intelligence propaganda. And I want to be absolutely clear gentlemen, that I fully expect each of you to do so. Each of you will be attacked by the president, Senate Republicans and right wing media for countering hostile foreign interference in our election, but you have a duty to do the right thing. Because facts still exist. Facts still matter. Facts save lives. And there’s no both sides when one side has chosen to reject truth and embrace poisonous false information.

Senator Duckworth: (03:05:52)
So in closing, I would like each witness to provide a personal commitment that your respective companies will proactively counter domestic disinformation that spreads the dangerous lies, such as masks don’t work, while aggressively identifying and removing disinformation that is part of foreign adversaries efforts to interfere in our election or undermine our democracy. Do I have that commitment from each of you gentlemen?

Chairman Wicker: (03:06:17)
Okay. We’ll take Dorsey, Pichai and then Zuckerberg. Mr. Dorsey.

Jack Dorsey: (03:06:22)
We’ve made that commitment.

Chairman Wicker: (03:06:23)
Mr. Pichai.

Sundar Pichai: (03:06:26)
Senator, absolutely yes.

Chairman Wicker: (03:06:29)
And Mr. Zuckerberg.

Mark Zuckerberg: (03:06:31)
Yes, Senator, I agree with that.

Senator Duckworth: (03:06:35)
Thank you. Your industries success or failure in achieving this goal, will have far reaching life or death consequences for the American people and the future of our democracy. Thank you and I yield back, Mr. Chairman.

Chairman Wicker: (03:06:45)
The Senator yields back. Senator Johnson.

Senator Johnson: (03:06:51)
I’d like to start with a question for all three of the witnesses. You have public reports that you have different chat forums in companies, and also public reports where the few conservatives that might work for your company, has certainly been harassed on those types of forums. I don’t expect you to have taken poll of your employees, but I just want to get kind of a sense, because I think it’s pretty obvious. But would you say that the political ideology of the employees of your company is, let’s say 50/50, conservative versus liberal progressive, or do you think it’s closer to 90% liberal, 10% conservative? We’ll start with Mr. Dorsey.

Jack Dorsey: (03:07:35)
As you mentioned, I don’t know the makeup of our employees, because it’s not something we ask or focus on.

Senator Johnson: (03:07:41)
Just what do you think off top of your head, based on your chat rooms and kind of the people you talk to?

Jack Dorsey: (03:07:46)
Not something I look for or look-

Senator Johnson: (03:07:48)
Yeah, right. Okay. Mr. Pichai?

Sundar Pichai: (03:07:52)
Senator, we have over a hundred thousand employees. For the past two years, we have hired greater than 50% of our workforce outside California, it does tend to be proportionate to the areas where we are in. But we have a million message boards at Google, we have groups like Republican side, liberal side, conservative side and so on and we have definitely made an effort to make sure people of all viewpoints are welcome.

Senator Johnson: (03:08:18)
So again, you won’t … Mr. Zuckerberg, will you answer the question honestly? Is it 90% or 50/50, which is it closer to?

Mark Zuckerberg: (03:08:26)
Senator, I don’t know the exact number, but I would guess that our employee base skews left-leaning.

Senator Johnson: (03:08:34)
Thank you for that honesty. Mr. Dorsey, you started your opening comments that you think that people don’t trust you. I agree with that. We don’t trust you. You all say you’re fair and you’re consistent, you’re neutral, you’re unbiased. Mr. Dorsey, I think the most incredible answer I’ve seen so far in this hearing is when Senator Cruz asked, “Does Twitter have the ability to influence the elections?” Again, does Twitter have the ability to influence elections? You said no. Do you stick with that answer, that you don’t even believe … let’s face it, you all believe that Russia has the ability to influence the elections or interfere by using your social platforms. Mr. Dorsey, do you still deny that you don’t have the ability to influence and interfere in our elections?

Jack Dorsey: (03:09:22)
Yeah. I mean, my answer was around peoples choice around other communication channels.

Senator Johnson: (03:09:27)
No, the question was, does Twitter have the ability to influence the elections? You said, no. Do you still stand by that answer.

Jack Dorsey: (03:09:38)
Twitter as a company, no. No, we-

Senator Johnson: (03:09:41)
You don’t think you have the ability by moderation policies, by, as Senator Lee and I would call it, censoring you what you do here at post. You don’t think that censorship, that moderation policies, you don’t think that influences the elections by withholding what I believe is true information from American public. You don’t think that interferes in the elections?

Jack Dorsey: (03:10:02)
Not our current moderation policies. Our current moderation policies are to protect the conversation and the integrity of the conversation around the elections.

Senator Johnson: (03:10:09)
Okay. For both Mr. Zuckerberg and Dorsey who censored New York Post stories or throttled them back, did either one of you have any evidence that the New York Post story is part of Russian disinformation or that those emails aren’t authentic? Do any of you have any information whatsoever they’re not authentic or that they are Russian disinformation? Mr. Darcy.

Jack Dorsey: (03:10:35)
We don’t.

Senator Johnson: (03:10:38)
So why would you censor it? Why did you prevent that from being disseminated, on your platform that is supposed to be for the free expression of ideas and particularly true ideas?

Jack Dorsey: (03:10:48)
We believed it fell afoul of our hacking materials policy. We judged-

Senator Johnson: (03:10:53)
What evidence did you have that it was hacked? They weren’t hacked.

Jack Dorsey: (03:10:56)
We judged in the moment that it looked like it was hacked materials.

Senator Johnson: (03:11:00)
You were wrong.

Jack Dorsey: (03:11:02)
And we updated our policy and our enforcement within 24 hours.

Senator Johnson: (03:11:08)
Mr. Zuckerman, Zuckerberg.

Mark Zuckerberg: (03:11:12)
Senator, as I testified before, we relied heavily on the FBI’s intelligence and alert to us, both through their public testimony and a private briefing, the alerts they gave us.

Senator Johnson: (03:11:24)
Did the FBI contact you and say the New York Post story was false?

Mark Zuckerberg: (03:11:28)
Senator, not about that story specifically [crosstalk 03:11:32].

Senator Johnson: (03:11:33)
Why did you throttle it back?

Mark Zuckerberg: (03:11:35)
They alerted us to be on heightened alert around a risk of hack and leak operations, around a released trove of information. And Senator, to be clear on this, we didn’t censor the content, we flagged it for fact checkers to review and pending that review, we temporarily constrained its distribution to make sure that it didn’t spread wildly while it was being reviewed. But it’s not up to us either to determine whether it’s Russian interference, nor whether it’s true. We rely on the FBI intelligence and fact checkers to do that.

Senator Johnson: (03:12:12)
Mr. Dorsey, you talked about your policies toward misinformation and that you will block misinformation if it’s against civic integrity, election interference, or voter suppression. Let me give you a tweet that was put up on Twitter. It says, “Senator Ron Johnson is my neighbor and strangled our dog, Buttons, right in front of my four year old son and three year old daughter. The police refused to investigate. This is a complete lie, but important to retweet and note that there are more of my lies to come.” Now, we contacted Twitter and we asked them to take it down and here’s the response. “Thanks for reaching out. We escalated this to our support team for their review, and they have determined that this is not a violation of our policies.”

Senator Johnson: (03:13:03)
So Mr. Dorsey, how could a complete lie, it’s admitted it’s a lie, how does that not affect civic integrity? How could you view that as being election interference? Let’s face it, that could definitely impact my bill to get reelected. How could that not be a violation of voter suppression? Obviously, if people think I’m strangling my neighbor’s dog, they may not show up at the polls. That would be voter suppression. So why didn’t Twitter take that … By the way, that tweet was retweeted something like 17,000 times and viewed by over, and loved, commented, and appreciated, by over 50,000 people. How is that not voter suppression? How’s that now the election interference? How’s that not affect the civic integrity?

Jack Dorsey: (03:13:53)
We’ll have to look into our enforcement or not enforcement in this case, of the tweet and we can get back to you with more context.

Senator Johnson: (03:14:00)
So Mr. Zuckerberg, in that same June hearing … Real quick, Mr. Dorsey, you referred to that June hearing, Stephan [inaudible 03:14:09] had all kinds of good ideas. That’s 16 months ago. Why haven’t you implemented any of those transparency ideas that you thought were pretty good 16 months ago?

Jack Dorsey: (03:14:18)
Well, he was talking about algorithm choice and we have implemented one of them, which is we allow people to turn off the ranking over a timeline. The rest is work and it’s going to take some time.

Senator Johnson: (03:14:28)
I would get to it if I were you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman

Chairman Wicker: (03:14:31)
Senator Johnson, thank you. Let me just make sure I understood the answer Mr. Dorsey and Mr. Zuckerberg. Mr. Dorsey, did I understand you to say that you have no information indicating that the New York Post story about Hunter Biden has a Russian source? Did I understand correctly?

Jack Dorsey: (03:14:57)
Yes, not that I’m aware of.

Chairman Wicker: (03:14:58)
And is that also your answer, Mr. Zuckerberg, that you have no information at all to indicate that Russia was the source of this New York Post article?

Mark Zuckerberg: (03:15:09)
Senator, I would rely on the FBI to make that assessment.

Chairman Wicker: (03:15:13)
But you don’t have any such information do you?

Mark Zuckerberg: (03:15:16)
I do not, myself.

Chairman Wicker: (03:15:17)
Just trying to clarify the answer to Senator Johnson’s question. Thank you very much for indulging me there. Senator Tester, you are next, sir.

Senator Tester: (03:15:25)
I want to thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I want to thank Sundar and Jack and Mark for being in front of this committee. There is no doubt that there’s some major issues with Google and Facebook and Twitter, that Congress needs to address. Quite frankly, big tech is the unregulated wild west, that needs to be held accountable. And we do need to hear from all three of you about a range of critical issues that Americans deserve answers on data privacy, anti trust, the proliferation and misinformation on your platforms. In a moment, I’m going to ask all of you to commit to returning to this committee early next year, to have a hearing on these important issues.

Senator Tester: (03:16:05)
But the truth is my Republican colleagues arranged this hearing less than a week from election day for one specific reason, to make a last ditch case based on shoddy evidence, that these companies are censoring conservative voices. It is a stunt and it’s a cheap stunt at that. It is crystal clear that this hearing is designed to cast doubt on the fairness of the upcoming election and to work with the platforms to allow bad information to stay up as November 3rd approaches. It is also crystal clear that the directive to hold this political hearing, come straight from the White House. And it is a sad day when the United States Senate, an equal part of an independent branch of government, allows the Senates halls to be used for the presidents political stunts.

Senator Tester: (03:16:58)
There is a national election in six days, Mr. Chairman, you had nearly two years to hold this hearing and it’s happening six days before the election. The idea that we should have a sober hearing about putting the reins on big tech six days before the election, quite frankly doesn’t pass the smell test. Today, this hearing is about electoral politics. I know it, you know it, everybody in this room knows it, and I know the American people are smart enough to figure that out. I’m going to talk a little more about that in a second, but first I want to thank the panel once again for being here. I start by asking a question about making a more sincere effort to discuss the issues that surround big tech down the road. So the question for the panel, and this is a yes or no answer, will you commit to returning to testify again in the new Congress? Start with you, Jack.

Jack Dorsey: (03:17:57)
Yes, we’re always happy to, myself or one of our teammates is always happy to talk to people.

Senator Tester: (03:18:06)
Sundar.

Sundar Pichai: (03:18:08)
Senator, yes. We have engaged many times and we are happy to continue that engagement to Congress.

Senator Tester: (03:18:14)
How about you Mark?

Mark Zuckerberg: (03:18:17)
Senator, yes. I hope we can continue to have this conversation and hopefully not just with the CEO’s of the companies, but also with experts who work on these issues every day as part of their jobs.

Senator Tester: (03:18:30)
Absolutely. I think the more information, the better, but not based on politics, based on reality. And I want to thank you for that because we are in a very unreal time when it comes to politics. Quite frankly, we are in a time when fake news is real and real news is fake. And you guys try to shut down the fake news, whether it comes from Joe Biden’s mouth or whether it comes from Donald Trump’s mouth. And the fact is if Joe Biden said some of the crazy and offensive stuff that the president has said, he would get fact checked in the same way. Wouldn’t you agree? You can nod your head to that. Wouldn’t you agree, if Joe Biden said the same stuff that Trump said, that you would do the same sort of fact checking on him?

Chairman Wicker: (03:19:18)
Shall we take Mr. Dorsey, Mr. Pichai and Mr. Zuckerberg in that order?

Jack Dorsey: (03:19:23)
If we found violations of our policy, we would do the appropriate enforcement action.

Senator Tester: (03:19:31)
Thank you.

Chairman Wicker: (03:19:37)
Just go ahead then. Mr. Pichai.

Sundar Pichai: (03:19:41)
Senator, yeah, we would apply our policies without regard to who it is from and we apply it neutrally.

Senator Tester: (03:19:47)
Okay, thank you. Mark.

Mark Zuckerberg: (03:19:51)
Senator, I agree with what Jack and Sundar have said, we would also apply our policies to everyone. And in fact, when Joe Biden tweets or posts and cross posts to Facebook about the election, we put the same label, adding context about voting, on his post as we do for other candidates.

Senator Tester: (03:20:18)
Thank you for that. In 2016, Russia built a network of bots and fake accounts that they used to spread disinformation. This year, it seems they are seeding your networks with disinformation, relying on Americans, including some folks in Congress, to amplify and distribute it. What tools do you have to fight foreign disinformation on your platforms, when it spread by Americans? Jack.

Jack Dorsey: (03:20:44)
We’re looking at … our policies are against platform integration, period, no matter where it comes from. So whether that’s foreign or domestic, we see patterns of people or organizations that attempt to manipulate the platform and the conversation, artificially amplify information.

Senator Tester: (03:21:06)
Mark.

Mark Zuckerberg: (03:21:09)
Senator, the efforts are a combination of AI systems that look for anomalous behavior by accounts or networks of accounts, a large human effort where we have 35,000 employees who work on security and content review, and partnerships that we’ve made with the other tech companies here, as well as law enforcement and intelligence community and election officials across the world, to make sure that we have all the appropriate input signals and can share signals on what we’re seeing with the other platforms as well.

Senator Tester: (03:21:39)
Sundar.

Sundar Pichai: (03:21:40)
Two things to add Senator, to give different examples. We partner with over 5,000 civic entities, campaign organizations at the federal and the state level, to protect their campaign digital assets with our advanced protection program and training. And I would echo there’s been an enormous increase in cooperation between the tech companies, as companies, we are sharing a lot of information and doing more together than ever before.

Senator Tester: (03:22:07)
Thank you. I just want to close with one thing. We’ve heard a lot information out here today, where when you hire somebody, you’re supposed to ask them their political affiliation. You’re supposed to ask them who they’ve donated to. There’s supposed to be a political litmus test. If you hire a Biden person, you’re supposed to hire a Trump person. Why not hire a Tester person, huh? Let’s talk about business. We want to regulate business and if that business is as run by a liberal, we’re going to regulate them different than if they’re run by a conservative outfit. That reminds me a lot of the Supreme Court, where you have two sets of rules, one for a Democratic president, one for Republican. This is baloney folks. Get off the political garbage and let’s have the Congress hearing do its job. Thank you very much.

Chairman Wicker: (03:22:51)
Thank you Senator Tester. Senator Scott.

Senator Scott: (03:22:56)
Thank you Chairman, for hosting this. I think first off, if you’ve been following all of this today, would you have clearly come to conclusion that Republicans believe that you censor and Democrats think it’s pretty good what you’re doing. We’re blessed to live in the United States, a democracy where we grant individual freedoms and liberties under the constitution. This isn’t the case around the world. We can look at what’s happening in communist China right now. General Secretary Xi has committed horrible human rights abuses against Chinese minority communities and censoring anyone that speaks out about their oppression. The Chinese Communist Party, surveils their citizens and use state run media to push their propaganda, control information their citizens consume and hide their human rights abuses. Twitter and Facebook are banned in communist China. So you can understand why it’s concerning we’re even discussing this issue, that big technology companies are interfering with free speech.

Senator Scott: (03:23:52)
The American people entrust your companies with their information. They believe that you will protect their information and allow them to use your platforms to express themselves freely. I don’t think any one person has signed up for any of your platforms and expects to be blocked or kicked off because of their political views. But it’s becoming obvious that your companies are unfairly targeting conservatives. That’s clearly the perception today. Facebook is actively targeting ads by conservative groups ahead of the elections. Either removing the ads completely or adding their own disclosure, if they claim that didn’t pass their fact check system. But their fact check is based on points from known liberal media groups, like [inaudible 00:29:36], which clearly is a liberal media group. Twitter censored Senator Mitch McConnell and put warnings on several of the president’s tweets. And until recently, they completely blocked the American people from sharing the New York Post’s story about Hunter Biden’s laptop and suspended the New York Post account.

Senator Scott: (03:24:55)
The New York Post is one of the most circulated publications in the United States, this isn’t some fringe media outlet filled with conspiracy theories. Yet you allow murderous dictators around the world to freely use your platform. Let me give you a few examples. On Twitter, Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah, tweeted calling for the elimination of the Zionist regime. He said on May 21, 2020, “The elimination of the Zionist regime does not mean the massacre of the Jewish people. The people of Palestine should hold a referendum. Any political system that they vote for should govern in all of Palestine. The only remedy, until the removal of the Zionist regime, is firm, armed resistance.” I’d like to know first why Twitter let that stay up, and why the Ayatollah has not been blocked. In May, 2019 Maduro, a murderous dictator tweeted a photo of him backed by his military for a march, after three people were killed and 130 injured during protests in his country. The tweet describes the march as a clear demonstration of the moral strength and integrity of our glorious armed forces, which is always prepared to defend peace and sovereignty.

Senator Scott: (03:26:06)
I would say this glorifies violence, which Twitter has flagged president Trump for, but Twitter let that stand. General Secretary Xi’s communist regime pushed by the fact it’s committed a genocide against the Uyghurs, forcing millions in internment camps because of their religion. On September one, a Chinese government account posted on Twitter, “Xinjiang camps, more fake news. What the Chinese government has done in Xinjiang has created the possibility for the locals to lead better lives. But truth that simply goes against the anti China narrative, will not report by some bias media. Clear lie. It has been widely reported that this claim by the Chinese government is false, but Twitter took no action.

Senator Scott: (03:26:51)
Your companies are inconsistently applying their own rules with an obvious bias. Your companies are censoring free speech. You target the president, the White House Press Secretary, Senator Mitch McConnell, the Susan B. Anthony List, a pro-life group, while giving dictators a free unfettered platform. It is our responsibility to hold your companies accountable and protect Americans ability to speak freely on their platforms, regardless of their political views or the information they choose to share. You can’t just pick and choose which viewpoints are allowed on your platform, expect to keep the immunity granted by section 2-30. So Mr. Dorsey, you allow dangerous dictators on your platform. Tell me why you flag conservatives in America, like president Trump, or [inaudible 03:27:39], for potential misinformation, while allowing dictators to spew their propaganda on your platform.

Jack Dorsey: (03:27:47)
We have taken actions around leaders around the world and certainly with some dictators as well. We look at the tweets, we review them and we figure out if they violate our policy or not.

Senator Scott: (03:28:02)
Mr. Dorsey, can you tell me one you did against Iran? the Ram the tile. Can you tell me about one you’ve ever done against Ayatollah or Maduro?

Jack Dorsey: (03:28:11)
I think we’ve done more than one actually, but we can send you that information on those actions. We want to make sure that we do have a global leader policy, that we believe it’s important. People can see what these leaders are saying and those tweets remain up, but they are labeled that they violated our terms of service, just to show the integrity of our policy and our enforcement.

Senator Scott: (03:28:39)
When the communist China, which we all know has put a million people for years in camps, you did nothing about the tweet, when they say that they were just helping them lead a better life. I mean, anybody that follows the news knows what’s happening to the Uyghurs. I mean, it’s genocide what they’re doing to the Uyghurs. I’ve never seen anything you’ve done on calling out a lie.

Jack Dorsey: (03:29:03)
We don’t have a general policy around misleading information and misinformation, we don’t. We rely upon people calling that speech out, calling those reports out and those ideas. And that’s part of the conversation, if there is something found to be in contest, then people reply to it. People retweet it and say, “This is wrong. This is obviously wrong.” You would be able to tweet that today and say, “This is absolutely wrong.’ And we benefit from one of those voices calling that up.

Senator Scott: (03:29:37)
But you blocked Mitch McConnell and Trump’s tweets and you just say … Right? I mean, here’s what I don’t get, is you guys have set up policies that you don’t enforce consistently and then what’s the recourse to a user? I talked to a lady this week that she just got her Facebook account just eliminated, there’s no recourse. There’s nothing she can do about it. So every one-

Senator Scott: (03:30:03)
There’s no recourse. There’s nothing she can do about it. So every one of you have these policies that you don’t enforce consistently. So what should be the recourse?

Jack Dorsey: (03:30:09)
We [inaudible 03:30:11] consistently. And as I said in my opening remarks, we believe it’s critical that we have more transparency around our process. We have clear and straightforward and efficient appeals. So the woman that you talked to could actually appeal the decision that we made, and that we focused on algorithms and figuring out how to give people more choice around it.

Chairman Wicker: (03:30:32)
Thank you, Senator Scott. Senator Rosen?

Senator Shelley Moore Capito: (03:30:37)
Thank you Mr. Chairman. I appreciate the witnesses for being here today and I want to focus a little bit, thank you, Mr. Dorsey, on algorithms because my colleagues and the majority [inaudible 03:30:51] that called this hearing in order to argue that you’re doing too much to stop the spread of disinformation, conspiracy theories and hate speech on your platforms. I’m here to tell you that you are not doing enough. Your platforms’ recommendation algorithms, well, they drive people who show an interest in conspiracy theories far deeper into hate, and only you have the ability to change this.

Senator Shelley Moore Capito: (03:31:15)
What I really want to say is that on these platforms and what I’d like to tell my colleagues, the important factor to realize is that people or users are the initiators of this content and the algorithms are the potentiators, if particularly, the recommendation algorithms, the potentiators of this content.

Senator Shelley Moore Capito: (03:31:36)
Now, I was doing a little cleaning in my garage like a lot of people during COVID. I’m a former computer programmer. I actually found my old hexadecimal calculator, and Radio Shack, my little owner’s manual here. So I know a little bit about the power of algorithms and what they can and can’t do having done that myself. And I know that you have the ability to remove bigoted, hateful and incendiary content that will lead and has led to violence.

Senator Shelley Moore Capito: (03:32:04)
So I want to be clear. It’s really not about what you can or cannot do, it’s really about what you will or will not do. So we have adversaries like Russia. They continue to amplify propaganda, everything from the election to coronavirus. We know what they’re doing, antisemitic, conspiracy theories. They do it on your platforms, weaponizing division and hate to destroy our democracy and our communities. The US intelligence community warned us earlier this year that Russia is now actively inciting white supremacist violence, which the FBI and the Department of Homeland Security say poses the most lethal threat to America.

Senator Shelley Moore Capito: (03:32:46)
In recent years, we’ve seen white supremacy and antisemitism on the rise, much of it spreading online. And what enables these bad actors to disseminate their hateful messaging to the American public are the algorithms on your platforms, effectively rewarding efforts by foreign powers to exploit divisions in our country.

Senator Shelley Moore Capito: (03:33:07)
To be sure, I want to acknowledge the work you’re already doing in this space. I’m relieved to see that Facebook has really taken that long overdue action in banning Holocaust denial content. But while you’ve made some policy changes, what we have seen time and time again is what starts online doesn’t end online. Hateful words morph into deadly actions, which are then amplified again and again. It’s a vicious cycle.

Senator Shelley Moore Capito: (03:33:34)
Just yesterday, we commemorated the two year anniversary of the Tree of Life shooting in Pittsburgh, the deadliest targeted attack in the Jewish community in American history. The shooter in this case had a long history of posting antisemitic content and social media sites. And what started online became very real for the families who will now never again see their loved ones.

Senator Shelley Moore Capito: (03:33:59)
So there has to be accountability when algorithms actively contribute to radicalization and hate. So Mr. Zuckerberg and Mr. Dorsey, when you implement a policy banning hate or disinformation content, how quickly can you adjust your algorithms to reduce this content, and perhaps what I want to ask even more importantly, to reduce or remove the recommendation algorithm of hate and disinformation, perhaps so it doesn’t continue to spread? We know those recommendation algorithms continue to drive someone more specifically and specifically and specifically. Great when you want to buy a new sweater, it’s going to be cold out here, it’s winter, not so great when you’re driving them towards hate. Can you talk to us about that please? Mr. Dorsey, you can go first please.

Jack Dorsey: (03:34:47)
As you know, algorithms, these algorithms, machine learning and deep learning are complex. They’re complicated and they require testing and training. So as we learn about their effectiveness, we can shift them and we can iterate them. But it does require experience and it does require a little bit of time. So the most important thing that we need to build into the organization is a fast learning mindset and that agility around updating these algorithms. So we do try to focus the urgency of our updates on any severity of harm, as you mentioned, specifically anything that leads to offline harm or dangerous speech that goes into offline hard.

Senator Shelley Moore Capito: (03:35:42)
And, Mr. Zuckerberg, I’ll ask you to answer that, then I have some more questions about I guess the nimbleness of your algorithms. Go ahead.

Mark Zuckerberg: (03:35:50)
Senator, I think you’re focused on exactly the right thing in terms of how many people see the harmful content. And as we talk about putting in place regulation or reforming Section 230 in terms of what we want to hold companies accountable for, I think that what we should be judging the companies on is how many people see harmful content before the companies act on it. And I think being able to act on it quickly and being able to act on content that is potentially going viral or going to be seen by more people before it does see a lot of people, that it gets seen by a lot of people is critical. This is what we report in our quarterly transparency reports, or what percent of the content that a person sees is harmful in any of the categories of harm that we track. And we try to hold ourselves accountable for basically driving the prevalence of that harmful content down. And I think good content regulation here would create a standard like that across the whole industry.

Senator Shelley Moore Capito: (03:36:56)
So I liked what you said, your recommendation algorithms need to learn to drive the prevalence of this harmful content down. So I have some other questions, I’m going to ask those, but I would like to see some of the information about how nimble you are on dropping down that prevalence when you do see it trending, when you do see an uptick, whether it’s by bots, by human beings, whatever that is. We need to drive that prevalence down.

Senator Shelley Moore Capito: (03:37:27)
And so, can you talk a little bit maybe more specifically then on things you might be doing for anti-Semitism? We know that that is white supremacy, the biggest domestic threat on the Homeland Security Committee. They have testified to this, the largest threat of course to our nation, and I want to be sure that this violence is not celebrated and amplified on your platforms.

Chairman Wicker: (03:37:49)
We’ll have to have a brief answer to that. Senator, to whom are you addressing the question?

Senator Shelley Moore Capito: (03:38:01)
Mr. Zuckerberg [inaudible 03:38:01]-

Chairman Wicker: (03:38:02)
To Mr. Zuckerberg?

Senator Shelley Moore Capito: (03:38:03)
I think I’ve only asked one, but we only have just a few seconds. We can ask that.

Mark Zuckerberg: (03:38:09)
Sure, Senator, thank you. I mean, there’s a lot of nuance here, but in general, for each category of harmful content, whether it’s terrorist propaganda or incitement of violence and hate speech, we have to build specific systems and specific AI systems. And one of the benefits of I think having transparency and transparency reports into how these companies are doing is that we have to report on a quarterly basis how effectively we’re doing at finding those types of contents so you can hold us accountable for how nimble we are.

Mark Zuckerberg: (03:38:45)
Hate speech is one of the hardest things to train an AI system to get good at identifying because it is linguistically nuanced. We operate in 150 languages around the world. But what our transparency reports show is that over the last few years, we’ve gone from proactively identifying and taking down about 20% of the hate speech on the service, to now, we are proactively identifying, I think it’s about 94% of the hate speech that we ended up taking down, and the vast majority of that before people even have to report it to us.

Mark Zuckerberg: (03:39:19)
But by having this kind of a transparency requirement, which is part of what I’m advocating for in the Section 230 reform, I think we’ll be able to have a broader sense across the industry of how all of the companies are improving in each of these areas.

Chairman Wicker: (03:39:33)
Thank you for that answer, Mr. Zuckerberg.

Senator Shelley Moore Capito: (03:39:33)
Well, thank you, and look forward to working with everyone on this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

Chairman Wicker: (03:39:41)
As do I, Senator Rosen. Thank you very much. When this hearing convened, I estimated that it would last three hours and 42 minutes. It’s now been three hours and 41 minutes. Four of our members have been unable to join us and that’s the only reason that my prediction was the least bit accurate.

Chairman Wicker: (03:40:11)
So thank you all. Thank you very much. And I thank our witnesses. During my first series, during my first question to the panelists, I referred to a document that I had entered into the record during our committee meeting I believe on October the 1st entitled Social Media Companies Censoring Prominent Conservative Voices. That that document has been updated, and without objection, it will be added to the record at this point.

Chairman Wicker: (03:40:52)
And I believe we are now at the point of closing the hearing. The hearing record will remain open for two weeks. During this time, senators are asked to submit any questions for the record. Upon receipt, the witnesses are requested to submit their written answers to the committee as soon as possible, but by no later than Wednesday, November 25th, 2020. I want to thank our witnesses for their cooperation and for bearing with us during a very lengthy hearing. And I want to thank each member of the committee for their cooperation in the conduct of this hearing. And with that, the hearing is concluded and the witnesses are thanked. This hearing is now adjourned.