Audience Member 1: Conor, I’d like to start with you. Welcome back, of course, first things first. I mean, this entire pandemic. I think we’ve wondered. What would a Conor McGregor fight be like with no crowd, and now it’s limited crowd. So now that you’re kind of in the building, you’re getting a sense for what the atmosphere is like. And we think about you, the bright lights are on the big crowds. That’s when you perform, how does that affect your energy, your focus on fight night?

Conor McGregor: I tell you what it feels pretty good right now. You know the crowd here. I know it’s a small crowd, but it feels good, so I’m very happy to be here.

Audience Member 1: Fair enough. But of course, as you said, this is a big fight, you know, pay-per-view headliner, but it’s interesting. I mean, you have a victory over Dustin. There may be the title fight on the line, maybe there’s not, we don’t really know. So what provided kind of your daily motivation? I mean, you know, that extra practice, that extra grind that you might not want to go to. What, was providing that for you?

Conor McGregor: My love for the game, my love for competition, my love for combat, and, you know, Dustin has put on an incredible run since our last fight. It’s been a long time coming. Yes, I did get a over him the first time, but you know, he’s rose right up and he’s back up there at the top of the division. So I’m excited to go on and compete with him again.

Audience Member 1: Fair enough. And you went out there and kind of made a pretty bold prediction. You said you think you can get it done in 60 seconds. You know, I know you have a lot of respect for him. But I wonder, that puts a lot of pressure on you, right? I mean, you win in the second round or you got shot decision. Maybe it was a letdown. So any regrets in making that prediction, do you stand by it?

Conor McGregor: You know, well, I got him out of there in 90 seconds the first time. So I mean, I’m not that far off, but you know, I just started complete confidence in my preparation and in my abilities, I know Dustin’s a hell of a competitor. I know there’s questions here. He’s heavier and he’s up on it. He’s up on a different weight, but he’s more experienced. I feel I can do it. However, you know, there are question marks regarding conditioning and things like that. I know his team has been spouting about the condition and on that I have put in a lot of work to get myself correctly to the 155 pound frame. I got 40 seconds inside the octagon in 2020, which caused major frustration in my, you know, it’s not enough. I need more. So I’m going to go in there and I believe, I believe I can get him out there and possibly we’ll hit him early and hurt him. But, you know, I, I hope for, for a good long, a good long bell.

Audience Member 1: Last thing for me, Conor, I mean, it’s kind of a, I think probably no coincidence in the timing, but you were named in a lawsuit this week. I just wonder if you have any comments on that and if that’s affecting your focus and I think that’s a lot on your shoulders ahead of a big fight like this,

Conor McGregor: You know, it’s all news. It’s been, it was investigated totally over the course of two long years and I was cleared of any wrongdoing and, and that’s it, you know, so much positivity in my life. I’ve got a great challenge ahead of me on Saturday, on Saturday night. And I’m very excited to get in. I put in an immense amount of work to get my frame correct at 155 to get my conditioning. You know, I want to answer questions here and I hope, I hope, I hope those things can bring it to me and we can, we can have a good fight.

Audience Member 1: Fair enough. Thank you, Dustin. Just one last one for Dana. Please, Dana obviously this is a massive Pay-Per-View.

Conor McGregor: Can I, sorry you’ve got the hot sauce, Dustin. I’m actually very, I want to, I’d love to taste the hot sauce.

Dustin Poirier: I’ve got a bottle for you.

Conor McGregor: I appreciate that. I’ve got a bottle of Proper for you. I love to share that. That’s so, you know what I mean? He’s putting in the work. I’ve been highly impressed. I think the whole business has been highly impressed. After that last many, many years ago, he rose up became champion. He’s given so much back. I’m honored to share this octagon with this man. I know we have this competitive fire and it’s still there. There’s still that, you know, there is no denying that we, we have a clash and it’s going to be a good firework field bell. And, but the respect is admirable for this man from me.

Dustin Poirier: I don’t want to make it seem like we’re up here giving each other back massages, but Conor’s, I just want to clear the air, Conor’s team, McGregor sports entertainment, did reach out to my foundation and they are, you know, starting the donation to the good fight foundation. And we have huge, huge plans for that. So Connor, man to man.

Conor McGregor: My Pleasure, buddy, my pleasure.Thank you.

Dustin Poirier: You’re going to help a lot of people with that.

Conor McGregor: Yes, yes and you, you.

Audience Member 1: Maybe you can help them with a distribution deal for the hot sauce.

Conor McGregor: Of course, of course. No problem. I got to taste it first though. You know, I don’t put my name to something unless it’s the proper, you know what I mean? Unless it’s the finest.

Dustin Poirier: I got you. You’ll taste it Sunday morning, then I’ll give you a bottle after. Yeah?

Conor McGregor: That’s perfect.

Audience Member 2: And then question for Conor, Max Holloway declared himself the best boxer in MMA. You kind of laughed at that on Twitter. So I’m wondering, how would you rate the three gentlemen up here boxing compared to yours?

Conor McGregor: I’ll tell you what, the last press conference I’d done with [Toronie 00:10:49] it was just myself and Dona up here. This time we’ve got three other men, four of us and we’re all in the same division. So there are opponents, potential future opponents and I’m very excited about that. That’s kind of what halted me in 2020, before the pandemic even hit, it was like nothing really presented itself. Well, here, we’ve got three up here. We’ve got Max skateboarding in the hallway, back at the hotel, so I’m very happy with that. I’m very excited to see how the bout goes in the coming event. I know the two men know the magnitude of where they are at and I’m excited, that’s going to breathe an exciting fight. You know what I mean? It’s going to be a lot of power thrown I hope. I would tell the two lads, if there is any stalling or any situation like that, to be separating and let the shots fly because there’s a lot at stake here. And I wish both men, the best of luck.

Audience Member 2: And then question for all four gentlemen up there, a unique situation four dads fighting on Saturday in the main up coming event. So are your kids aware of what’s going down on Saturday? Are you going to let them watch? I know Conor has Conor Jr and his kids here, but are you going to let your kids watch on Saturday night?

Conor McGregor: Sorry, say that again, was that to me?

Audience Member 2: It’s for all four. Are all four gentleman’s kids going to watch the fight on Saturday?

Conor McGregor: My kids will watch them, after having them for a week and giving them the experience, they are a little young though. I don’t think I’ll have them in the arena for the actual bout, but there’ll be watching their daddy for sure. And I look forward to going back after the fight.

Dana White: I told you guys, we’ll see what happens this week.

Conor McGregor: We’ll get him. We’ll get him.

Speaker 1: Hey, Conor, out of the available lightweights to you right now is Dustin the hardest challenge you could be facing?

Conor McGregor: I think so, yeah. You know what, I’ll always go. I’ll always look to get the highest challenge. Dustin here has a win over Hooker, who is on stage here. He has a win, he knocked out Justin. So there’s some high contenders already. And Justin and Tony knocked out Tony, who was another contender. So I think I’m right at the top here. I would make the case, if that man is continuing to dodge this and dodge the commitment of competing again, the title should be stripped and we should be engaging in a title fight. But I’m sure it will happen after this bout. I’m interested to hear what the excuses are, what will be said after the fight. But I predict a title strip.

Speaker 1: Going off prediction. You said, “It’s going to take 60 seconds to beat Dustin.” It might go longer. But do you have the shot in mind already that you want to finish in with? Or is that something that presents itself in the fight?

Conor McGregor: I have a million shots. I’ve so many weapons in my arsenal and they’re all fine tuned at this time. I’m in a phenomenal place. And I look forward to getting out and showcasing, painting my picture and putting on a beautiful performance for the fans around the world.

Speaker 2: Hey, just a quick one from me as the unofficial lightweight tournament commissioner, I just wanted to get available confirmation you guys, because listen, Charles Oliveira with the victory only over Tony Ferguson, he’s pretty much through to the semifinals. Now we’ve got Justin, you’ve probably just come into the mix, but of course it’s about you guys. The semifinal spots at stake, even if one or two, you come out of this weekend and fight for the title. I think most media fans, we want to crown a new undisputed lightweight champion by the end of the year. And I just want to get a quick confirmation-

Conor McGregor: Book it, put me in. Book it, I’m in.

Speaker 3: Hey Conor, you looked like you had something, you were about to say there when Dana was talking about the pay-per-view numbers. Why don’t you [crosstalk 00:08:40].

Conor McGregor: Yeah. It just goes without saying. You don’t go and come up and talk about EA Sports, UFC Selections and all this type of thing, when it comes to me. All the pay-per-views are treading. The Embedded has been record breaking again, it’s almost double. The first episode of the Embedded has almost double all of the other Embeddeds that came out in 2020 by one, McGregor Serone. So it’s trending in the right direction. I’m very excited about it. I’m very excited to get these guys on the platform here, you know what I mean? And like I said, and I’m happy to hear Chandler say this and Hooker say this, “Take your chances and reap the rewards here.” So that’s it, there’s going to be two cracker fights and I’m ready. And as the guy from BT said about the tournament, book it, we’re in and that’s amazing. Let’s go.

Audience Member 2: One more for you, Conor. I know you kind of said at the beginning, the narrative about your conditioning and everything going into this fight. Can you just expand on that? And why do you think there are those doubts about your cardio?

Conor McGregor: You know what, I think it’s a myth. Obviously I had the Diaz one, the first Diaz fight I went from feather weight and then a month or so later I was at welterweight, that’s obviously going to have impact and then there was other issues, but I think overall it’s a myth and it’s a myth that’s… It’s out there and that’s it. I hope we can answer it. And I will answer it in time. At some stage, I keep showing up here, someone’s going to be able to stay in the pocket with me and stay in there and fight with me. And I hope it’s this-

Conor McGregor: Go with me and stay in there and fight with me, and I hope it’s this Saturday night. Do I think so? I do not. I’m in some shape here at the minute and I’ll tell you this now, I am coming to put on a masterpiece. I’m excited about it.

Speaker 5: Hey. Question for Conor. How are you doing? I’ve enjoyed listening to you talk about getting the frame right for 155. And it struck me, it’s kind of crazy that you’ve only competed there twice. You’ve been in the UFC for, what, seven years? You’ve only competed at 155 pounds twice. Is that your ideal weight class, do you think? Do you think that’s where you operate at the highest level?

Conor McGregor: I’ve done pretty good in all the other ones as well. I’ve done good in them all. I’ve knocked secured belts in multiple divisions and I’ve secured knockout victories in multiple divisions. And I do feel great at this weight, but whatever I commit to I feel great at. When I do the welterweight belts, I feel great. I feel strong and big. I still feel this now. You know what I mean? I feel fast, also. So I’m excited to get in and showcase it. And like you said, I have not had that much fights at 155 pounds in the UFC, and I’m eager to put in a stint, to get a run going like I done with the featherweights. I think I went seven or eight fights within the space of a year and a half. That’s what I’m looking for here if they can match me up.

Conor McGregor: I know now we’ve got multiple opponents up on the dais already, so we’re in a good spot. And I’m eager to get going and showcase. I feel this is the best I have ever been for sure, and I’m at 155 pounds. but if I go back to 170 pounds, you best believe that’ll be the best yet also. So it is what it is.

Speaker 5: Yeah. And one Tweet that you… I don’t know exactly when you put it up but you said that after you won the 155 pound belt you wondered, maybe you should’ve jumped up and gone for that 170 pound belt right away. And I just wonder… Obviously things have worked out well for you. The Mayweather fight made you a whole lot of money, but have there ever been… Do you think about that sometimes? “What would have happened had I not left the sport?”

Conor McGregor: Yeah. Sometimes I think, “Man, I should’ve just stayed in the featherweight division and fought Ricardo Lamas and all those type of guys and I’ve just been in the featherweight division.” I always look to challenge myself and seek greater heights. And although I’ve been the champion at 155 pounds. I have not had much time at this weight in the UFC, and this is what I wish to do now.

Speaker 5: Last thing for you: I would ’t say the security team was necessarily concerned about it but they were very aware that you were going to be in the hotel this week at the same time as Khabib. And I was just wondering if that is still a warranted concern or have you guys past that part of your relationship that you could be in the lobby of a hotel and we wouldn’t have to worry about anything happening between you guys?

Conor McGregor: All of those events were 2018. It’s now 2021. What I will say is as long as we fight again, there’ll be no issue. And that’s it. If he continues to run, well then I’m not sure. We’ll see what happens.

Michael Chandler: Overall, this is the toughest competition that I will ever face in my entire life. But I think when you look at my resume, when you look at my track record, guys like Eddie Alvarez, guys, like Benson Henderson, these are champions that were here in the UFC. Granted it was a couple of years later, but I’ve been competing at a high level since I was 14 years old, as I said. So I’ve been dreaming of this day or visualizing this day just in case it ever did come, and now I’m fully prepared to take the opportunity head on. And absolutely, all these guys are the best in the world. And the UFC lightweight division is the most hyped, most electrified, most energetic division in the UFC today. And it was a perfect time to insert my name into the mix.

Conor McGregor: I bring all of the discipline and the drive that I learned in my martial arts training and preparation and competition into the business world, and it’s helped me tremendously. It’s why I always would urge any parents around the world to get their children into mental martial arts. Any type of combat sport. And it’s not necessarily to compete. If they wish to compete, well then they can compete. But the things that they learn through martial arts, you cannot learn it anywhere else and it will translate many other things, especially the business world. So it’s pretty much the same. Two of the same.

Michael Chandler: I think we’ve seen a lot of growth in Conor. One of the baddest men on the planet and now one of the most daddest men on the planet. All of us, as you alluded to, we’re all dads. We all started coming up hungry, humble. And now we’re dads and really fighting for a different purpose. So you see that in him, you see that in Dustin, you see that in Hooker, and you see that in myself. So man, either way, Saturday night we’re all going to go out there, put on a great show. Everybody by that pay-per-view. Let’s go.

Conor McGregor: Appreciate that, brother. Thank you.

Speaker 9: Conor, how are you doing mate?

Conor McGregor: Yeah.

Speaker 9: You’ve evolved so much in your fighting career, but I think you’ve always been an artist inside and outside the cage with your fighting style and your ability to sum up things in such a poetic manner. But can you just talk to me a little bit about how you define yourself as an artist?

Conor McGregor: I’m just an insanely driven young man. You know what I mean? I’m passionate about what I’m passionate about and I give it my all. That’s it. I’m a hard worker, through and through. If something needs to be done, Conor McGregor gets it done. Make no mistake about it.

Speaker 9: That’s awesome. Staying on the topic of art, I wanted to read you a quote from 2013 that you said. It’s really poignant and I think it deserves to be read out in full, so just bear with me. “I’ve lost my mind on this game, like Vincent van Gogh. Dedicated his life to his art and he lost his mind in the process. That’s happened to me, but fuck it. When that gold belt is around my waist and my mother has a big mansion, my girlfriend has a car for every day of the week, and my kids kids get everything they ever wanted, then it will pay. Then I’ll be happy I lost my mind. Can you just reflect and talk to me about how that makes you feel, hearing that in 2021?

Conor McGregor: Yeah, it’s been some ride. I’ve got it done and I’m up here mad as a brush. I’ve been through what all, my friend. I appreciate that. And it’s been a wild ride for me. It’s not been easy at times, but what a life. And I’ll tell you what, I wouldn’t want it to be any other way. I’m very excited to be back here. I’m very excited to have fans back in the area. I’m very excited about the competition, the multiple competition. I just feel invigorated. And as you said about artistry and all, and Vinny van Gogh. I’m going to paint a beautiful picture here inside this octagon on Saturday night, and I’m very excited to do so.

Interviewer 1: We know the motivation behind Dustin’s fight against Conor McGregor is to beat Conor McGregor and to become the champion within one year. But you, Conor McGregor, you fought Jose Aldo, and you elevated the standard and then you fought Eddie Alvarez and you became the double champ, and you’re just elevating standards each time. So, beating Donald Cerrone last year, and now you’re fighting with Dustin Poirier; what’s your motive? After this? After seven, eight years of competing in the UFC?

Conor McGregor: I feel like I’m only starting, man. Everyone kind of wants to, “Hey, Conor, you’ve done it all. You’re so rich. Richer than Dane, over here. What are you doing here?” I’m like, I’m allowed here, I want to be here, I want to perform for the fans. I’m a young man, I’ve got many highlights, all the money, all the belts, everything that comes in and that goes, what lives on are highlights: are fig ters highlights. You look at Roy Jones Jr’s highlights, Mike Tyson’s highlights… I still look at them today… Ali’s highlights. I want my highlight reel to be like a movie. You know what I mean? So that’s what I’m after, I’m looking to get in and perform and put on amazing highlights that I can sit as an old man with my son and just watch back and enjoy life.

Conor McGregor: You know what? I’ll be drinking, I know he’s proud as well, we’ll be by the fire in the Emerald Isle of Ireland. And this is it, man I’m just loving my life. Please don’t be trying to get rid of me guys, I love it here. I helped build this, I helped do this, I’m here, and I love it. I have plenty of motivation, do you know what I mean? Dustin’s a hell of a competitor. What does the champ-champ do? He does it twice. “Okay, I conquered it. Lets conquer again”. You know what I mean? They were twice, that’s what the champ-champ does.

Interviewer 2: Conor, question down here. Talk to me about how your training camp went in Portugal. I know it was kind of secluded due to the lockdown. You’ve had secluded camps in the past, do you think this is something that you want to continue with going forward?

Conor McGregor: Yeah, I’ll tell you what. It’s been a phenomenal camp all across the board. We were in Lagos in Portugal, we were in Dublin, we were in Dubai, and now we finish it up here. Yeah it was an amazing camp. I have an amazing team of people around me, all across the board, from the nutritionist, from my coaches in mixed martial arts, in jujitsu, in boxing, in wrestling, and all my sparring partners… It’s a phenomenal team I have… as well as my conditioning coaches. I’m looking forward to going in and represent them all my team’s hard work. You know what I mean? We put a lot of hard work in here and I’m going to go in and do my team proud.

Interviewer 3: And Conor, this one is for you. I know you’ve been asked a lot about this whole Khabib thing, but I’m just curious to know: he said he’s looking for something amazing, extra ordinary, this Saturday for him to change his mind and come back. What do you think he’s looking for this Saturday for him to change his mind?

Conor McGregor: You know, I don’t really care. I did not say that, Dana said that. Let’s just get to the fight. All these men are up here, there are plenty of challenges, it’s a tough business and things have gone on in his personal life. I don’t wish him any harm. Like I said, it was in 2018, a lot of time has passed. The world knows this fight is not over. This war is not over. The sport needs it to happen, the people need it to happen, I’m not going to chase it if he doesn’t want it. And that’s it. I’ll keep my calm and move on. And that’s what I’m doing, I’m back here at the 155 pound division, I’ll show the world what’s what over time and that’s it. It begins on Saturday night against Dustin Poirier.

Interviewer 3: Finally, my last question. I heard Dustin say that he actually kind of enjoyed the fights during this past year without a crowd because he felt it was a bit more intimate and he was more focused. I’d like to know, does having or not having a crowd affect you in any way when you’re inside that octagon or not really?

Conor McGregor: Yeah, no, a fight is a fight for sure when you’re inside that octagon. I was actually very, very excited to compete with no crowd, at the start I was like, “Oh, I don’t know” but over time then I really wanted to see and hear my power, and my velocity, and my precision. I wanted to hear my shots whistle through the air with no background noise and, and really put a statement out there of the difference. I almost got to do it, but there’s not that many fans, only a couple of thousand; my power, my speed, my precision, my velocity, my whistle will still whistle strong on the night. And I’m excited to show.

Interviewer 3: Thank you.

Conor McGregor: Thank you guys, thank you.

John: Conor, clearly, I’m sure, frustrated with the result, not what you’re hoping for, but what are the emotions like for you right now?

Conor McGregor: Yeah, it’s heartbreaking, John. It’s hard to take. Damn. [Inaudible 00:40:04]. The highest highs and the lowest lows in this game. My leg is completely dead. And even though I felt like I was checking them, it was just sinking into the muscle at the front of the leg. And it was badly compromised. It’s like an American football [inaudible 00:19:21]. So, it is what it is.

Conor McGregor: Dustin fought a helluva of a fight, engaged in the take down with him. I thought I done well. I got up [inaudible 00:40:31] him. I was in my head, thinking, “I’ll take him down. I’m going to just tie up now.”

Conor McGregor: I felt all right in the clinch with him. I was better than him in the clinch, but too little, too late. The leg was compromised, and I didn’t adjust. That’s it. Fair play.

Conor McGregor: Dustin, very happy for him. I’m very happy that I got to compete in this in these times and come back May 11th UFC main event. And that’s it. It’s hard.

Conor McGregor: I don’t know where I’m at, at the minute, to be honest.

John: We think about your mental toughness and what you’re made of. I mean, was that difficult for you to know, like, This leg just isn’t working anymore. Like there’s, I’m, I’m dead in here.”?

Conor McGregor: I was going to tough it out. Do you know what I mean? I toughed it out as much as I could, but it was an unusual one [inaudible 00:20:19], where I would feel okay in sparring or something, checking that side.

Conor McGregor: I felt like I lifted the leg up multiple times, but it just sunk into the muscle at the front, and it was badly compromised. And then Dustin had a good, solid defense as well, too. So when I was pressing forward with the shots, he was defending well.

Conor McGregor: It is what it is. He fought a helluva fight, and that’s it. What can you do? I’m happy for him.

John: You said the inactivity just caught up to you. I mean, is it physical? Is it a timing? what was the cost of the inactivity?

Conor McGregor: It’s the whole shebang. You know what I mean? But I have no excuses here. It was a phenomenal performance by Dustin, and that’s it. I don’t know what I …

Conor McGregor: And that’s it, I don’t know what to say. I’m going to go back, I’m going to chill out, I’m just going to watch the full fight and get a better grasp on it. But the leg was compromised and I was rushing the shots a little bit and I didn’t adjust. And that’s that, it’s a bitter, bitter pill to swallow. And I don’t even know whether I’m that upset, I don’t know. I don’t know what to say.

John: Last thing for me, Conor, Dana was here earlier and he said like he hadn’t talked to you yet, but he was like, “This could go one of two ways. Either A, Conor gets hungry, you know what I mean? It drives him and he comes back better than ever. Or he walks away. He know he’s got money in the bank, he doesn’t need to do this.” As you sit there right now, which of those two paths sounds right?

Conor McGregor: Yeah. I’ll certainly regroup, I’ll regroup and pick myself up, you know what I mean? Get up off the floor and go again and that’s it. Styles make fights, there’s many great stylistic match-ups out there. Me, myself and Dustin are one-and-one myself, and Nate are one-and-one. There’s many good match-ups for me and I’ll adopt a different approach for the trilogy, I feel with Dustin, because those leg kicks are not to be messed with. You know what I mean? A that calf kick, the low calf kick, I’ve never experienced that.

Conor McGregor: And it just was a good one, so it’s not that I haven’t got the style in me to switch it up and keep that at bay. And I have a lot more weapons I didn’t get to show. It wasn’t my night, it wasn’t a great night, but again, no excuses. Hats off and regroup and pick myself up. I look forward to going back now and seeing the kids and just taking the licks, man. It’s a bastard of a game. It is what it is. There’s not a mark on me face, I wasn’t rattled or anything, it was just, I had no leg. And fair fucking play, he fought well. Yeah, I look forward to [inaudible 00:43:55]

Speaker 10: Conor, was the the leg something that you felt growing over time as he landed more shots, or did it suddenly happen? Because in the final sequence, there’s a moment where it looks like your leg suddenly goes dead and your balance goes?

Conor McGregor: Yeah, it was accumulating, accumulated for sure. I knew when I seen that he had Tiago Alvarez in the corners like these, I knew what was coming. I knew he likes to kick the low-key. He’s also experienced that kick before, himself, Kagan. That’s my first time to experience that. But one of them soon gain early and Tiago said, “That was a good one.” And I was in my head thinking, “You bastard, it was a good one.” And then it just started accumulating up. But, fuck it, it is what it is, man. I’m not that upset over it, which is another weird one for me, you know what I mean?

Conor McGregor: I’m happy, I put in an immense amount of work. I gave it me all and I’ll regroup for sure. You know what I mean? I’ll adopt maybe a different stance. And every opponent has a different… You have to approach things differently with everyone. And south paws and that back kick wrapping around the front part of that muscle on the low leg is something that I must adjust to. It’s not like it’s not within me to do that, so that’s what I will do.

Speaker 10: Dustin looks like he’s going to go on and fight for a title now. You mentioned his name. Do you think now’s the time to do the Nate rematch? Would that be a fight that makes sense for you, or you’re not even thinking about that?

Conor McGregor: No, I’m not. I was just kind of thinking I have a lot of… Like I said, styles make fights. I adopted a similar approach against Nate, but I was above the leg, it was the leg kick above. And that low one is an interesting one, for sure. It’s a very interesting kick, same stance. Opposite stance, it’s nothing. You know what I mean? He threw, actually, an opposite, a right low kick, and I checked it clean. But the outside ones wrapping around. And even though I felt like it toned the leg out, checked it, and you have to almost turn it right out and it has to hit the bone, it can’t hit the muscle. And that’s it.

Conor McGregor: Me and Dustin now, it’s one-and-one. For sure, we’ll go again. I hurt him in the first round. He got a good take down. I turned him against the fence, caught him on a nice elbow, caught him on my spinning hook kick. More activity, I feel, straight away. As soon as I was catching loads of the kicks, and he was kicking out, catching it. Straight away then, I should’ve just closed and clenched him. You know what I mean? I’ve got all the moves and all the skills in me game. You know what I mean? And I felt I was out clenching him, and I felt stronger than him. I just didn’t adjust in time and that’s it. It is what it is.

Speaker 10: You mentioned the clench. There was a moment where you were both against the cage trading shoulder shots with each other, and it looked like you were having a conversation or something. Were you guys talking to each other?

Conor McGregor: Yeah, just the usual cracking back and forth, one for one it was. But I felt the better ones, anyway.

Speaker 10: And last thing for me, Conor, you say you’re sitting there and you’re not upset and that’s a bit of a weird one. Is part of that because this is something that you love to do, otherwise you wouldn’t be doing it anymore? And the fact is, despite the loss, you finally have been able to compete again for the first time in a year. John mentioned about, “Our people worry you might sort of go off and leave the game.” Are you still happy right now? Are you happy that you just got to compete?

Conor McGregor: Yeah, I am, I am happy. I’m disappointed, but I’m happy for sure. I got to come out here and do this fight here in the Middle East, put on a show for the people. I done me best. And things don’t go your way at times, but pick yourself up and carry on. I’ve got a lot of good things going on in me life, if you know what I mean? So I’ll just keep me head high and that’s it. And take the shots, take the licks and just fucking keep on going.

Speaker 11: Conor, right here. A lot was made, coming into this fight, of the sheer size of Dustin. A lot of people said he was cutting down from 180 to 155. Did you feel the strength or size of him in there?

Conor McGregor: No. I was way stronger in the clenching. And I turned hm against the fence, I had him pinned. And we both had to make one… Well, I made 155, they made 156. But no, he just fought a good fight, an experienced fight. He’s been in here a lot, almost more than double the amount of time I’ve been in here, in the cage. And that’s it, it’s a hard… You keep showing up, you’ll get there. And like I said, I’m very happy for Dustin and his wife, and the things that they’ve been doing. I’m proud and honored, like I said before, proud and honored to share the octagon with him and we all want a piece.

Speaker 11: I don’t want to sour your mood, but Habib has responded to your loss on Twitter. He says, this is what he wrote. He goes, “This is what happened when you changed your team, leaving the sparring partners who made you a champion and sparring with little kids far away from reality.” Do you have a response to that at all?

Conor McGregor: My team has been the team since day one, I’ve not changed anything. It is what it is. Respect the athletes, and that’s the character of the man, for sure, behind the mask. And whatever, what’s he want to do? Does he want to come back or no? Because he’s not throwing to no leg kicks, you know what I mean? I got up off the ground against Dustin, I turned Dustin. You know what I mean? Look at little pockets of that sequence where he fights. Like I said, styles make fights.

Conor McGregor: Every fight is a different fight. That’s why all this prestige and all that people try and hold on to. I don’t hold on to that. Whether someone has multiple wins or multiple losses. Every fight between every man is different and that’s it. Dustin’s style just played into it today and he has the durability, he has experience and he has that leg kick now in his arsenal and I’ll adjust and keep going. But if he wants to have his disrespectful comments, come back and let’s go again, my man. You know what I mean? I’m here for that.

Speaker 11: Yeah. Dana did say it’s-

Conor McGregor: That’s fighting talk. So if you’re coming back, come back. You try and do it. So that’s that.

Speaker 12: One of the main comments right now on social media from all the fans is, “Even legends can lose.” How do you feel to have such an amazing fan base that supports you until the end?

Conor McGregor: I’m very, very grateful for the support I receive. It’s got me up off the floor many times throughout my competitive life and me personal life. And that’s what I said, I’m proud and honored to come here before you and put a show on for people of the world. To do this through Christmas, to go the 155, to give it a shot. I done this for the support, for the fans, for the people that support me. And all I can say is I’m sorry I let the side down. And I’m fresh. I’m healthy. There was no trauma blows, there was no… It’s just me leg is like a football. Below me knee is literally like a football, an American football inside me suit pants. It went right up into the hip.

Conor McGregor: In Thailand when they themselves a wax with the oil there, with the stick to strengthen up the shins. I hope now I might be getting that little bit of durability in that muscle now. Like I’m developing the antibodies or something, you know what I mean? If you want to put it like that. So I’ll adjust and keep the head high. It’ll be a rough few days and that, but I’m going to go back and enjoy me kids, have fun. It’s morning here, I’m going to still do me thing, have me Proper Irish coffee, have me [inaudible 00:51:47] go back to the yacht. We have a child on the way this summer. There’s a lot of good in my life, and I’ll be smiling and I’ll be happy and that’s it.

Speaker 13: Hey Conor, a wise man once said, “He who fears being conquered is sure of defeat.” And although we didn’t get to see the masterpiece that you intended on creating tonight, we got to see a sensational display of heart, charisma and pride all week. I feel that the people that will take the most away from this will be your children. Leading by example in defeat. And if that’s not a masterclass, I don’t know what is. Do you agree?

Conor McGregor: Thank you, sir. I appreciate that. You’ve been great all week and now you’re bringing things back to make me well up.

Speaker 13: Thank you.

Conor McGregor: I’m very happy to have me kids here and me family with me, side by side. And I am who I am at this time, you know what I mean? I’m a different man for sure. And the competitive fire is still in me. And like I said, I will regroup and adjust and come back. I’ve done it before and I’ll do it again.

Speaker 13: Thank you, my friend.

Interviewer 3: Conor, here. We know that you are the type of fighter that always liked to engage with the audience, with the fence. How was that experience today? And looking to the future, do you consider fighting the UFC backs with no fence?

Conor McGregor: I thought it was great, it was just like fighting in the prelims. I felt good and that’s it. It felt no different, inside the octagon is inside the octagon, and I just need more time in there. Just to be settled. And then, I just need to make me adjustments and go for it.

Interviewer 3: And after what we saw today with Michael Chandler, I don’t know if you had the opportunity to watch the knockout?

Conor McGregor: I did, yeah. I thought it was a beautiful knockdown. it was a good fight.

Interviewer 3: Dennis said that probably this will be the next title fight. Who do you pick, Chandler or Poirier?

Conor McGregor: I don’t know, man. I don’t know. I don’t know. Don’t just write me off yet. I’ll make me adjustments and keep moving, so anything can happen in this game. And I’ll go back, I’ll get healthy and I’ll re prepare. I’ve built an incredible… I’ve got to a great place in me body, physically. And I’m going to continue to grow on that. You know what I mean? I get the swelling down in the leg and I’ll get back to me training and me cardiovascular work, me strength work, me skills work, and just keep living the martial arts life.

Speaker 14: Conor, can I just… Over this way, sorry. You’ve spoken, there’s so many people talking about you when it’s like Manny Pacquiao or Floyd Mayweather, and getting into boxing and all of that kind of stuff. Does something like today make you think, “I want to concentrate on one thing,” or are you still going to be kind of open-minded to do that?

Conor McGregor: Geez, there’s none of them leg kicks in boxing anyway. But look, I always did want to focus on me MMA courier, but I’m also open. I’ll just see what happens. I don’t know what will happen. That Manny fight was happening, it was as good as done. So I don’t know, man. I just want to get in and just get back into a bounce, and especially against that style of fighter, and not take those kicks. Don’t play with those kicks. Although, I don’t know. It’s just a motherfucker to take, man. That’s me mind’s going, so I’m just trying to replay all the sequences. And I haven’t watched the fight back yet. I just had a shower and came here, and I look forward to watching that back.

Speaker 14: How did you feel in that first round, though? Because I thought, just me here, that you’re striking was going really well and stuff. Was it just a case of that first kick where was you was like, “Ah.”

Conor McGregor: It wasn’t just… Yeah, no. It just kept building up, you know what I mean? And then I threw one at him, I was like, “Throw your kicks, man.” I wanted to let him walk… Even when we were in the clench, he got the take down and I got back up and turned him. I was like, “Right, lovely.” Where I’m getting more time in the octagon, that was in my head. I was like, “Lovely now, we got a bit more time in here now.” So I wasn’t in a hurry. And you know me, I come out, “Wha!” And I go over it. So there’s a lot of me head now. I’m not even like, “Oh, maybe I need to go back that way.” I’m just going to be who I am in the moment and take things as they come. And that’s it.

Speaker 14: You say the Pacquiao fight is probably on the back burner now, is that because of the leg, I assume?

Conor McGregor: I don’t know how long. It’s muscle, it’s all muscle. It’s just deep into the muscle and it’s just a complete dead leg right the way up. It’s no bone, no nothing, not a mark on the head. I’m just plain good, man. It’s just [inaudible 00:56:43] instead of a bleeding dead leg. But it is what it is, man. Fair play to him, it was a smart fight. He got the shot, he got me down in the first, man. I should’ve just tied it up in the fucking… When I caught a few of them kicks, I should have laid and just pressed him against the fence and keep beating him in the fence. Hit him with a lovely elbow on the temple that hurt him. Should have just kept mauling him.

Conor McGregor: Generally, I felt well stronger than him, well stronger. So maybe I’ll switch up my game the next time we fight Dustin, and maybe you’ll see a grappling side of me the next time me and Dustin go ahead. I just have to keep going and just be able to go through the disciplines seamlessly, and make the correct decisions in there. And that will only come with time in the octagon. You can do a billion rounds outside, but without time inside the octagon life, it’s a hard thing to do. So I’ve got away with it the last while, but not tonight.

Speaker 14: And lastly from me, I want to talk about the evolution of your character that we’ve seen. You’re very humble and you’ve been very respectful and classy for this whole process. Talk to me, do you think becoming a father has really brought that out of you and that makes you appreciate things like this that much more? You can go to your family after this. That’s why you’re maybe not as upset as what you said?

Conor McGregor: Yeah, but I mean, yeah, of course. But I am upset, I’m upset. I’m sad, but I’m still a contender. I’m happy. And like you said, I’ve got a lot going. It’s not nice going back without the win, you know what I mean? That’s for sure. But life is like that sometimes and we pick ourselves up and keep going.

Speaker 15: Conor, just real quick to your left over here. I know you would have rather had the win, but Dana did say when he was in here that this was one of the two or three highest selling pay-per-views in UFC history. What does that mean to you and say about your drawing power still at this point?

Conor McGregor: Yeah, it’s always good. I tried to come in and give a show all across the board, in the lead up and in the fight week and in the fight itself. Sometimes you come in here and make magic, and sometimes you don’t. And I’m happy with all my records and I’m happy that I got to compete and do it again. It is what it is.

Speaker 15: What do you think is a bigger trilogy, Dustin or Diaz?

Conor McGregor: I think they’re both pretty, pretty big. Two south paws as well, which is interesting. Yeah, they’re both there, so see what happens.

Speaker 15: Is there one you want more?

Conor McGregor: Yeah, I don’t know. I just want to regroup for a minute, to be honest, you know what I mean? I want to just watch the fight and see where I’m at. Right now, I’d probably say Dustin, obviously. It’s fresh, and that’s it.

Speaker 16: Conor, just one last question here. Over here to your right, just over here. The other day you were saying, “What does the champ champ do? He does it again.” The lightweight title, where do you see yourself in that now? Is that something that you really feel you want to regain before you retire? Or are you comfortable just taking fights you just mentioned?

Conor McGregor: No, I would love to get in and get back on the horse and secure the new belt with the Irish flag on it, for sure. And anything can happen in this business, as long as you stay active, as long as you compete. Things shape around you, you know what I mean? You show up, you reap the rewards and that’s it. That’s what’s happened for Dustin tonight, and it’s what’s happened against me tonight. I’ll keep me on the prize, for sure. All right, thank you guys so much, I appreciate it. Thank you all.