Question: Conor, what was going on with your late arrival? Was it a conscious decision, a little bit of a mind game?

McGregor: He knew what he signed up for. The traffic is a little heavy, there must be a McGregor fight on. I don't know where the little fool is. He's better off running anyway, I bet he was saying a load of s*** up here. He didn't say anything last time... fuck it, these things happen.

Q: Are you disappointed at all, we were looking forward to the face off. It was maybe an opportunity for you to get in his head.

McGregor: I did not plan this, I tried to get here. I'm only a couple of minutes late for fuck sake. The mad backwards c*** should have stayed put. That's a sign; he doesn't want to be around me, he doesn't want to be around these people - he's petrified. He said nothing in New York and I bet he was saying s*** here. It is what it is, I've given you enough face-offs over the year. I'm here to fight this man on Saturday night, it's more important that he gets the weight off. I want him making weight, I want him to show up on Saturday night because he was missed weight before and been rushed to hospital and all this other bollocks. Get that man in a sauna and cook him like the little chicken-jaw rat that he is.

Q: Conor, you've achieved a lot of incredible things in your career already...

McGregor: Who's on the Proper whiskey?! Only another couple of hours and I'll be on it with you.

Q: Can you say where this will rank... stepping away for two years and coming back to fight the unbeaten Russian champion, the toughest stylistic match-up for you, where would this rank?

McGregor: It's another day, setting the bar high and knocking it out of the park. I plan on knocking that man's nose straight into the nosebleeds, that's what's going to happen on Saturday night.

Q: We see the two opportunities he may have as grappling and cardio, how much were those the focus of your camp?

McGregor: I've been grappling and wrestling much heavier men this whole camp. Only yesterday... 200 pounders for 25 minutes straight. I have cut no corners and I am ready for all outcomes. Once I hit him he is going to turn weak, I expect panic in him early but we've prepared for every outcome. I also don't give a bollocks, I've experienced it all.

McGregor: I've got tired in there, I've been on my back in there, I've been in every scenario you can be in under the brightest lights in the entire world. I am a veteran so I am going to go out there and do what I am here for, I am here to enjoy this because this is what I love. I am going to come out fast at the bell, pressure him and send that man's nose into the nosebleeds.

Q: The fans weren't there in New York; they're here today... is this the way it should always have been?

McGregor: This is what I campaigned for in New York. I almost wasn't going to show up to the New York press conference. It's great to see the fans here and they're going to keep coming and coming. I'm filled with energy seeing my people come here and I'm going to make every single one of you proud on Saturday night. Thank you truly from the bottom of my heart, it's good to be back!

Q: Tony Ferguson is carrying his belt around, Khabib is carrying his belt around, where are your belts?

McGregor: I was in a hurry, they're in my gaff at the minute, in my bedroom. I forgot them as I came out but there's a bloke gone to get them. But because I was late and because that little backwards c*** sprinted off the stage I thought fuck it, I'll just come on the stage. I know who the king is and I'm going to show it on Saturday night.

Q: Part of the reason for him leaving early was to get on schedule and make weight tomorrow. If he doesn't, do we still have a fight?

McGregor: You know with me there's always a fight going on somewhere. I don't give a bollocks about the weight, but if he doesn't make weight we'll figure it out when we get there. I'm fighting, know that!

Q: At the open workouts, Khabib had something to say about the Irish language and about your family... what do you have to say to those comments.

McGregor: You should never take information from an informant; you should keep distance from the informant at all times. That's the friendly way of putting it... his manager is a fucking snitch terrorist rat and that's it. I can go into heavy detail... and I will! He was pulled off a flight going from Cairo, Egypt to New York on September 11, 2001. He was caught with five passports in his possession. He turned informant and turned on the people he was working with. I don't even know how that man is in this fucking country. The Irish people are facing this immigration stuff on the way over and you've got this man with such a crazy background, Ali Abdelaziz, and he's rocking around free, it beggars belief to be honest. But don't ever take information from an informant and that's what that man is doing; he's a rat b****** and I'm going to get him on Saturday night.

Q: Do you think the presence of the Irish fans has gotten to him mentally?

McGregor: uck him and his mentality. I don't give a fuck about him. My heart is black towards him, towards his team and towards his people. I can truly see inside that man's head and style. I don't give a fuck about him and his people. There is way deeper s*** than just a fight on Saturday night so it is what it is. I'm going to settle this the noble way and see what happens after that.

Q: Do you think you're in Khabib's head?

McGregor: It's clear as day, but again I don't care about his mentality or what he is thinking here. I am ruthless; I am coming to put a hole into this man's skull, dig my knuckle into his orbital bone and that is what I am going to do.

Q: You have been very gracious before in wins and in defeat. Do you see yourself being able to squash the beef after fighting him?

McGregor: Fuck peace. There will never be peace here. I always say you should aim for peace, but if you can't aim for peace, aim between the eyes. I'm going to aim right between that man's eyes and this is never over, never over. Never, ever, ever over.

Q: Let's talk about whiskey for one second. I wonder if your whiskey is good?

McGregor: Ask my bollocks! There's always going to be people who are hating, it comes with the territory of being at the top of the game. Trust me, it is the tastiest Irish whiskey there is on the planet. I fucking love it and I don't care what anybody says. I'm not even trying to sell it, just have a sip. Just take a bottle and enjoy it. When I count to three, I want everyone in this building to scream at the top of their lungs, fuck the Jameson brothers, One, two, three, fuck the Jameson brothers! Yes, coming for it all, me.

Q: Have you been getting any numbers back on how well it's been doing?

McGregor: It's exceeding expectations. I'm involved with a couple of people who have been in the liquor business their entire lives and they've never seen anything like this. I've just got to thank my fans and the people who support me. It has sky-rocketed... we are trying to get more glass created and keep the whiskey flowing. It's out of the park but it's flowing in Las Vegas.

Q: Is part of the art of war to you learning as much about your opponent as possible?

McGregor: I just observe. I know every shot everyone throws, every move everyone makes. I just keep my eyes on the game that I run. I overlook my empire with my hawk eye.

Q: Khabib has talked about your past, what do you think that means?

McGregor: He's listening to that informant. It's all good to me, it's closing on fight night. You just cook yourself in that sauna you smelly Dagestani rat, and be there on Friday for that weigh-in and be there Saturday for the right. Say what you want, you don't have the bollocks to stay here for a couple of minutes extra. He spotted his chance and went running; like in the fight, I believe he'll spot an exit and he'll try and take it, but I won't let it happen.

Q: You mentioned falling out of love with the game, are you here to stay?

McGregor: Yes, that's why I'm here; the fans, the love, the energy. Truly, you can't beat that. It's as addictive as this Proper Twelve whiskey. But you know what's better than money? More fucking money, and there's a lot more coming in. I just love to be here doing what I'm doing. I'm only 30 years of age so I'm very, very young in the game. Even though I've been around and I'm experienced, I'm young compared to others so I'm here for a good while yet.

Q: You say it'll never be over with Khabib, can you see yourself fighting him more than once, or if you get the devastating KO will that be the end of it in terms of in the cage?

McGregor: I don't know, we'll see what happens. I'd like to fight that Ali, I'd like to fight that rat b****** somewhere. He's had a few fights, I might want to spark Khabib and then headline that Madison Square Garden card on November 3. I may want to do that one, that's what I'm thinking. Get the fight promo started; The Snitch against The Irish Proper Animal.

Q: Where does your legacy go from here when it's already so big.

McGregor: I just keep doing my thing, looking for a knock. At the end of the day, when I sign up, you're going to get a fight, that's a known fact. I come out fast, I come out aggressive and it's a damn fight. There's no holding, no stalling, it's a straight knock. I'm going to keep doing what I'm doing. My legacy is set in stone, two-weight world champion, the first, the only. I just keep on going, see what happens.

Q: What would you describe your level of hunger to be? Might Khabib be hungrier than you?

McGregor: No. I'm starving. I am starving for this man's head. I am going to eat him alive in here and I don't give a bollocks. There is no-one hungrier than me, I am 24/7 in this game.

Q: You used to say you wanted to come to Las Vegas a month before, how come you haven't done that this time?

McGregor: It's hard to leave Ireland when you're in it; it's a damn good place to be. The air, the people, it's where I'm from so I spent more time there this time round. But I've also done the rounds in Las Vegas, I've been here for many, many months on end. I'm used to the climate so I said I'll stay in my beautiful home of Ireland then come out a little later and that's what we did. I feel great, I'm energised, we've done it easily.

Q: You looked Khabib in the eyes a few weeks ago; what did you see then and what will you see tomorrow?

McGregor: I saw a man who does not want to be here. He got out of here quick style, but hey you can't run now so I'm excited about that.

Q: Jose Aldo came out very aggressively in the first round, do you think we'll see something similar with Khabib?

McGregor: He's afraid of a clatter, make no mistake he does not like to be hit. He's a flincher as we call them in the novice ranks, that's what he is. He's also easily backed up so I am well aware of what to expect and it ain't nothing that fazes me.

Q: When are you going to fight in Ireland again?

McGregor: I said the other day, where is the Dublin fight? I know the situations with Croke Park, I know we want the stadiums but I'd fight in the Ringside. I'd fight in the Ringside on the south circular road where I made my boxing debut and my MMA debut. It's a pub and it holds about 50 people but I'd fucking fight in it. I certainly must, must, must fight in Ireland before I call it a day.

Q: You've spoken about new weight classes... how necessary is 165lb for the UFC?

McGregor: I think we would benefit from having more champions. With an overlook we could help athletes with their weight cuts but I don't think it's the be all and end all. When people are campaigning for these weight classes, and anything in general, they usually use it as a complaining tactic. I think you need to sit down and discuss all aspects and figure it out. I believe it would be beneficial having more belts on the line... potential dual-weight and treble-weight champions. I am for it, 155lb, 165lb, 175lb, 185lb, 195lb, 205lb.

Q: Do you see yourself at 165lb?

McGregor: Have you followed my career? I could go 185lb. I don't give a bollocks, if there's a fight there I'll take it. I would like te 165lb belt, but I would also like te 170lb belt. I think the game is going through a stage where we're looking to make it better for the athletes with their weight, but also the more belts... but I understand the way boxing has gone and there's hesitation about but I think we can sit down and come to a decision.

Q: Dana said your mental game has surpassed even Muhammad Ali...?

McGregor: Thank you so much, Dana, I appreciate the kind words. I have nothing but good things to say about you. You bare an OG (original gangster) of the fight game. The work you've put in to get this game to each level, you don't get the credit you deserve. The ESPN deal you got, when Lorenzo bowed out I wasn't sure what would happen, but with the ESPN deal, you are a true OG of the fight game and it's an honour to be up here doign business with you. I know we've had our ups and downs but it's an honour. Thank you for the kind words about Muhammad Ali, you tell the truth, no matter what, you tell the truth, like me also. Muhammad Ali was a special, special individual. I am not even close to that man, the things he did in his career, he is a special man. To even have my name next to that man is a truly special moment but I can't compare myself to the great man.

Q: If this fight does two million pay-per-view buys, how much money could you make?

McGregor: We're estimating three to three and a half million. I'm closing in on the $50m mark and for a mixed martial artist to make $50m in a MMA bout is breathtaking. Life is good; to think where we've come from... when I fought Nate Diaz the first time he was on $20,000 to show and $20,000 to win... the game has gone to so many new heights so quickly. It's a great time to be involved in the sport. Times are good so let's enjoy these momentous ocasions.

Q: How long until you're a billionaire?

McGregor: I'd say by 35 I'll be a billionaire.

John Daly: Hell yeah, man. I just launched my own alcoholic sports drink. It’s called Smirnoff Sport. Smirnoff Sport. It’s just blue vodka.

Conor McGregor: Invest? Pfft. Why should I invest in some silly bank for years when I can go to Vegas and double my money in an hour? All I do is win, Charles.

Charles Barkley: Okay. Last time you went to Vegas, what happened?

Conor McGregor: I lost.

Charles Barkley: Conor, gambling is an addiction. I still have my issues myself. Yesterday I bet Michael Jordan $10,000 that I would get a hole in one.

Conor McGregor: the odds of that is fairly long, man.

Charles Barkley: Okay, the question there, Trust a Stripper. Scenario: A stripper you just met follows you home, sits you down, and then says put on this blindfold and count to 1,000. Do you do it? I’m going to give you a hint. You don’t do it. [buzzer] Conor.

Conor McGregor: I like that. She’s freaky, right? Yeah, you bloody go for it.

