Q: Hungry lion out, fat cat in?
A: Am I the hungry lion I once was? Maybe not. It’s certainly different, but I’m now the fat cat. I’m the fat cat pulling all the strings around here, and that’s an even more dangerous individual.

Q: Poirier acted shady?
A: I feel almost pity for some people in the game, to be honest. I had a little bit of pity for Dustin. He’s been around many years. It’s not a pretty game for a lot of people in this business. I just came back and wanted to be respectful and give the jewels, and f*ck that this time. It wasn’t reciprocated. It was shady. It’s not that I didn’t know about it. It’s not that I didn’t know the intentions, but now the intentions are clear, and I’m gonna punish him for that.

Q: I was looking past him
A: I pitied the man, to be honest. I was looking past him. I had a Manny Pacquiao camp in place, and that was three-quarters of the camp.

Q: They fight me afraid
A: He also shot for the legs 20 seconds in, almost as fast as the Dagestani (Khabib Nurmagomedov) did. The Dagestani shot for the legs for a takedown 15 seconds into the first round. Dustin was 20 seconds. They know what’s what. They know the danger that they face. I understand they fight me afraid. They dive for the legs. They try and stall positions. They shell up. They look to kick the legs. There’s things I’m aware of now, and I’ve made adjustments. I look forward to correcting it.

Q: For the record ...
A: My record in mixed martial arts competition is 19 wins and one loss. I only count knockouts. I only count knockouts. Dustin’s record is 13 wins, two losses. The only thing that’s final in this business is a knockout. All the other things – the decisions, the taps – all that sh*t means nothing to me.

Q: Rewriting history
A: I sent electric bolts through his entire body, from his head to his toes. You can see him rattled in the octagon. In the first round AND in the second round, he was out on his feet. He knows it, as well as I know it. It’s gonna be a butchering.

Q: Murder shots
A: I’m coming in to kill this man. I’m coming in with vicious intent here – murder shots.

Q: UFC needs me forever
A: UFC needs me forever. I am forever. I am forever. My accomplishments are forever, my knockouts are forever, my run is forever, my domination of two divisions is forever, and what’s to come is gonna be more forever.

