Question 1: Yeah. In all discussion, I know you’ve heard it, low kicks, calf kicks, low kicks, calf kicks. When you hear that, do you say, “Yeah, I executed perfectly”, or do you say, “Why are people not giving me credit for everything else I did in that fight?”

Conor McGregor: You’re going to walk like a dog in that octagon on Saturday night.

Question 1: I guess, lastly, for me, Dustin, this is obviously different. It was similar last time. It’s getting kind of ugly again. Is this getting personal for you at this point?

Conor McGregor: You’re only a little b***h. Your wife is your husband. You’re only a little b***h of a thing; a silly little hillbilly. Joe Lee’s wife, Joe Lee’s wife, Joe Lee’s wife, you little b***h of a thing.

Question 1: Thanks, Dustin. Conor, I want to ask you the same. Conor, throughout your career, when something has gone wrong, you’ve always evaluated spot on and made the corrections right afterwards. You really did point to those low kicks and said how dangerous those were. In the time since, have you seen other issues or other challenges that he presents to you, or is that really all that you need to address here?

Conor McGregor: This is my bread and butter. This is what wakes me up in the morning with fire in my belly. Errors to correct, tactics to prepare for. I’ve had a great camp, a great focus on the opponent’s details.

Conor McGregor: What?

Conor McGregor: Yeah. Shut your mouth, you little filly or I’m going to dance on your head.

Question 1: Conor, it’s clear that the gentlemanly Conor that was in Abu Dhabi is not here this time around. Dustin’s admitted, at fight number one, you got in his head. As you’re sitting there right now, do you feel that you’ve been able to get into his head or under his skin again?

Conor McGregor: I’m going to go through his head, put holes in them, and take it off his shoulders. That’s the goal here. He’s done here. This is it for him. This is the end of the road. Even after that last fight, “Oh, I don’t love this anymore. I don’t love doing this.” He knew what was coming. He knew the smacks he took. It’s on, now. Saturday night, he’s getting walked around that octagon like a dog and put to sleep.

Question 1: Hey, Conor, just one last one for you. We think about all the things that you’ve accomplished in your career. Certainly, there’s not a title on the line in this one, but what would a win in this trilogy series mean for you? What would this mean, as part of your legacy?

Conor McGregor: It’s beautiful. Another addition, another feather to the cap. It’s what I love to do. I love to come in here, defy the odds, do the unthinkable, and put on a show.

Question 1: Thank you, Conor. Dane, just one quick one for you. I know that you were teasing some big numbers and big trends and were excited about it. As we sit right here, what can you tell us about the status of this pay-per-view and where you expect it to end up?

Question 2: Question for Conor. You walked out, you posed for the crowd. It seems like you pulled some of Dustin’s hot sauce out and threw it at him. Why did you feel the need to pour out his hot sauce?

Conor McGregor: It’s garbage. Don’t have that garbage up on my bleeding stage. Where’s the proper 12, the real sauce, the real Irish hot sauce.

Question 2: Dustin, it seems like you have something to say.

Conor McGregor: Good one.

Question 2: Another one for Conor. This is really the first time you’ve been in the same room with Dustin since Fight Island. Has seeing him in person now, after all the back and forth, on social media-

Conor McGregor: I think he looks rough, to be honest. It looks like the wait is getting to him. I can see it in his eyes. There’s stress in his eyes, a lack of sleep. You can see it. It’s coming for him on Saturday night and he knows it and I know it. I’m going to love doing it.

Question 2: Dustin, same question. Is finally seeing Conor in person, after all the back and forth on social media, has it elicited any more emotions or is it still just business, as usual?

Conor McGregor: I see a corpse. I see a dead body.

Question 3:
This is a question for Conor. This is a question for Conor. This ocho cinco with B/R Betting. A quick question, myself and the entire B/R Betting family, we’re walking with you Saturday night. I want to hear from your mouth, are you a lock?

Conor McGregor: I’m a lock. I’m going to kill this man.

Question 4, Robbie, Barstool: All right. Robbie, Barstool Sports, over here. Question for Conor. Conor, we know you left the kids at home this time. Are they going to be watching on Saturday night or are they not allowed to witness the violence you plan on delivering?

Conor McGregor: The fight will be about 5:00 in the morning on Irish time, so the kids will be asleep. They’ll watch it in the morning, when they wake.

Question 5: Conor, when people think about you, they think about the guy who apologized to absolutely nobody. Is that guy here today and will he be here on Saturday?

Conor McGregor: An evolution of that guy. I’m better than that man, do you know what I mean? I’m out there evolving. I’m about to come on full circle and I look forward to showing it on Saturday night.

Question 5: Dustin-

Conor McGregor: That night was the single greatest performance in UFC history, widely regarded. The night I won the second world title in Madison Square Garden. This performance, on Saturday night, I’m going to top it.

Question 6: Question for the notorious Conor McGregor. You’re already a hall of famer, your legacy is already cemented. Winning against Dustin Poirier, winning this trilogy fight, where does it stack up against all the accomplishment, beating Aldo, getting the Champ status against Eddie Alvarez. Where would this rank?

Conor McGregor: My mindset, I’m back on the building site now with a hard hat, a [inaudible 00:12:23] vest, and two hammers in my hands. That’s my mindset. I’m not relishing in all my past accomplishments, all the money I’ve got in the bank. All the former accomplishments, all that. I don’t care about that. I’m back on the site in a [inaudible 00:12:37] vest with two hammers on my f***ing hands.

Question 6: Out of curiosity, did you finish the bottle of hot sauce that Dustin gifted you on Fight Island?

Conor McGregor: Didn’t touch it.

Question 6: Dustin, question for you. Winning this trilogy, would it be more meaningful than winning the interim lightweight strap at UFC 236 against Max Holloway?

Conor McGregor: Don’t contradict yourself, Dustin, because the last time we were up here, you were giving us all a large one. Saying, oh, the title means everything. Yet here you are looking for the bread and the butter, you little fake c***.

Question 6: Then, this is the last question for both of you. Get your hand raised Saturday evening, how quickly would you like to return? Would you like to fight for the strap before the end of 2021 against [Oliver 00:13:29]?

Conor McGregor: Yes, we’re going to fill out the Allegiance Stadium, the Death Star.

Question 7: Question for Conor. Conor, the say that game recognizes game. When you look at Dustin, does he feel like he’s on your level? Do you recognize him as a champ?

Conor McGregor: No, he’s not in the same stratosphere as me. The man looks disgraceful up here. He looks frail. He looks frail at this weight now. I’m telling you, his head, his body, his frame, his eyes. That weight class is getting to him. I’m all the way, ready to go. There’ll be no 155, there’ll be nothing free given here. Everything is getting took here.

Question 7: Second question for Dustin. You entered the UFC as a young fighter. Now you’re a wise business man. What’s that journey been like for you to be entering the fight game, but now in the business game?

Conor McGregor: Your wife is your husband.

Question 9: Question for Conor. Conor, win or lose, do you respect Dustin Poirier no matter what happens on Saturday night?

Conor McGregor: I don’t give a f**k about him, to be honest. I don’t give a rat’s ass about him. He’s Buster Douglas. He’s Buster Douglas, is what he is and that’s the way he’s going to go down. He’s going to be known for that. It was a fluke win and I’m going to correct it on Saturday night.

Question 9: Does this Conor McGregor look-

Conor McGregor: He’s not going to do nothing.

Moderator – Dana: -that I can’t pay attention to this fight.

Conor McGregor: Don’t keep watch on me, because that little filly won’t do nothing.

Question 10: Conor, right here. Conor, right down here. Conor, question for you. You have won exactly one fight since Barack Obama was president.

Conor McGregor: Watch your mouth. I’ll go down and smash your nose in.

Question 10: Hold on. Conor, as a fighter-

Conor McGregor: I’ll go smash your nose in and then I’ll laugh. Then, I’ll laugh.

Question 10: Cross talks over the last six months.

Conor McGregor: You little rabbit. I’ll smack him.

Question 10: Sent you to a place where time doesn’t exist six months ago. We want to know why should anyone expect anything different on Saturday?

Conor McGregor: It’s one more fight I won than your little sissy ass, you little fanny pad.

Question 11: Question for Conor. Despite your feelings towards Dustin, Habib, and Nate, do you still think it’s important to have a strong rival to help you get better and establish legacy?

Conor McGregor: Yeah. Fuck the whole roster. Fuck the entire roster. I see the way it is. You try and be nice to them, you try and help them out, but f**k them all now. It is what it is and that’s it. I’m coming for all of them.

Question 12: Question for Conor. I’m curious. You’ve been talking a lot about legacy. How much would a trilogy fight with Nate Diaz interest you?

Conor McGregor: It’s for sure going to happen. It must happen. More than that, it must happen, it will happen. I look forward to the day.

Question 12: Last thing from me for Conor.

Conor McGregor: Louisiana wasn’t good enough for you, was it? You left Louisiana. It wasn’t up to scratch to get you to where you needed to be, was it?

Question 12: For Conor, what else do you feel you still have to accomplish? You already were a simultaneous two division title champ. What else do you have on your radar to accomplish?

Conor McGregor: Strainers, scraps, fights. That’s what I love to do. It’s what I’ve been doing my entire life and that’s it. More mega fights.

Conor McGregor: Shut your mouth.

Conor McGregor: What? Nobody’s coming on, you tit. Pauli Malignaggi inspiring in the lead up to Floyd, one of the better boxers on this f**king planet, you stupid tosspot. We didn’t ring anyone’s ass for any bleeding info on you, you dope.

Question 13: Question for Conor. Conor, the lack of trash talk last time around made things easier for Dustin, he said. Can you regain, in an intimidation factor, after losing it? How do you regain a psychological edge?

Conor McGregor: I don’t give a bollocks about all that. Lock me in the cage with him. You’re going to see what’s happening.

Q: TMZ Sports. Conor, congrats on making the cover of Forbes.

Conor McGregor: Thank you so much.

Question 14: How long until you’re a billionaire?

Conor McGregor: By the time I’m 35. I’m 32 now.

Question 14: 35. Okay. You’ll be 33 next week. Do you want the boss, Dana, to get you anything for your birthday?

Conor McGregor: No, I have everything I need. I have everything I need.

Question 15- Forest Griffin: Thank you. Thank you. Conor, same question to you?

Conor McGregor: I love it all. There’s not one bit of it I hate. I love every bit of it, from the start, to the middle, to the finish, to gearing up, to right now, here at the presser, to the weigh in tomorrow, and to the fight on Saturday night. I absolutely love it all.

Question 16: Conor, history has shown when you are active, you are sharper. Do you think you’ll look back on this five year stretch and regret only fighting three times in your prime?

Conor McGregor: I don’t regret nothing I’ve done on this planet, as long as I live. I love my life. I’ve done some incredible things and I’ve had an incredible career. Long may it continue.

Question 16: Conor, should we expect to check calf kicks this fight?

Conor McGregor: You’ll pay to see that.

Question 16: Finally, Conor, I’ve watched all your interviews this week. It seems like you’ve been hesitant to give the official “Mystic Mac” prediction for this one. Can you go on record-

Conor McGregor: No, I said I’m going to take him out in a stretcher. He’s going out in a stretcher in this fight.

Question 16: What round, sir?

Conor McGregor: You’ll pay to see that.

Question 16: Thank you.
