So take me back to college, did you graduate from school?
Nah, man. I’m a college dropout. You ain’t heard the album title?

Nah.
That’s the album title.

Oh it is? Hey man, I’m right there with you.
That’s exactly what I want people to think with that title: “I’m right there with you.” I’ve thought about calling my shit I’m Good, because that’s a “cool” title, like just having a title that’s like, “Yo, you can’t criticize that.” But for me to try and put on the facade of being the coolest motherfucker ever, it’s not going to come across like that. I’m not saying I’m the coolest motherfucker ever, I’m just saying I’m just a fucking smart-ass. I got to put it in raps.”

Tell me about growing up in Chicago.
In Chicago you’re going to do one of three things. You’re either going to be sports, straight basketball or football, or you’re going to be hip-hop, like really focus on hip-hop and the culture, or you going to be gangbanging. You might be doing all this and gang-banging at the same time because 99 percent of people in Chicago is gangbanging.

We was gangbanging in kindergarten. We was on the school bus throwing up gang signs like, “Which gang sign was which again?” Perpetrating and shit. Moving our hats to the whatever side, and when the Starter coats came out, “I’ma get the Bulls and I’ma do this, this, this.” And if you wasn’t none of that, you was just a fucking lame and shit.

That’s how Chicago is. This gangbanging shit is so real that you not going to front whatsoever. Once you grown and you see niggas getting their heads chopped off and you going to funerals, you either going to take it to the fullest or you going to be like, “Nah, it’s not for me.” I know it’s not for me. I know that.

So basically, my main focus became music. I been making tracks since seventh grade. I was on the basketball team freshman year. I used to play for Eisenhower and we went to some tournament or something. But by sophomore year, I had been working on my music so much that by the time we went to tryouts, I’m just straight missing layups and shit.

You said you used to bring back slang and whatnot from the East Coast.
Yeah. My father stayed in Delaware for the latter part of his life but his father was in the Air Force, so he had to fly around. He spent some of his high school years in Germany so he was never at one school. And they always stayed around white people. So when he finally got the opportunity to go to a black school everybody was like, “Yo, you talk white.” They wouldn’t accept him. And when he was around white people, you were a nigga off the bat so they weren’t trying to accept him. I seen how that hurt him. So whereas my father struggled with that, basically I learned how to speak every language.

So what was the first thing you started building beats on?
The Casio, that old sampler that everybody talks about they had. I didn’t have that until some talentless dude down the street had it. And he would never let me keep it, he’d just come over with it. My mom had bought me a keyboard. Just to establish, she didn’t know, I wanted to be a freestyle biker, I wanted to draw, make video games, so she didn’t know I wanted to make beats. I remember one day when I was making beats in her crib, she told me, “Kanye, until you make money off this, it’s a hobby.” But she’s never the type to say nothing negative toward music.


What records were pivotal to you?
The reason I’m so real today is because of MC Hammer and Kid ‘n Play. Those were my favorite rappers back in the day. I felt like they was real. They making music that I wanted to hear. I remember someone played me some Jungle Brothers, and I was like, “Ew, I’m not feeling that right there.” De La Soul’s “Me, Myself, and I” was the first hip-hop song I liked. At that point it was EPMD, Run-DMC, LL Cool J, Beastie Boys. Remember that? I’d be at my mama’s crib. This is back when people used to sit they record player on top of they TV.

What music do you listen to for inspiration?
Midnight Marauders. I listen to certain classics to figure out where I want to go. I listen to Lauryn Hill’s album, Pharcyde’s first album, that’s one of my favorite albums of all time. That joint still sells 1,000 a week.

You say you weren’t feeling the Jungle Brothers. Where did you pick up your ear for that sound?
I got that from No I.D., from Common Sense’s first album, which is much later than the Jungle Brothers.

It’s definitely the same thing though.
It’s the same thing but the way they was doing it wasn’t like they made me want to do it. It’s kind of like how people had soul beats, but there’s something about the way me, Just Blaze, Bink, and Jay Z did on The Blueprint that made everybody want to do it. People had throwback jerseys for the longest. I went out and bought that actual jersey soon as I saw Big Boi in the “Sky High” Goodie Mob video. There was something about Hov and Fabolous, something about the way they did it made everybody go out and get it. And I’m a good producer but the opportunity to have Hov rap on your beats makes all the difference in the world because he sets trends. People do what he does. They want to do whatever he does, he’s like the poster child of industry, fashion, business, hustler [9], everything that people want to be. So when Hov rapped on soul beats everybody else wanted to rap on soul beats.

You worked with Dead Prez, Jermaine Dupri, and the Harlem World shit before 2000?
Yep.

Speaking of which, I just noticed that Harlem World had a joint from you and from Just Blaze.
That was crazy right?

Was that random?
Ma$e is the type of rapper that wanted to give new producers that he felt a new drop. So let’s not forget Ma$e, to a certain extent, found Just Blaze, Kanye West, and The Neptunes. That’s a nigga that knows how to pick beats. Ma$e found them, but Hov, to a certain extent, made Just Blaze, Kanye West, and The Neptunes stars.

When did you first start rapping?
I’ve been rapping since third grade and I had to figure out at an early age about audience and who you’re rapping to and saying the right thing to your audience. Right now I could spit any of my raps to a nigga on the corner, somebody in a barbershop, but I could go into a corporate office and say the same rap [10] and they will understand what I’m talking about. It’s so universal. I remember I was trying to get in this talent show and the Fat Boys had a song so we formed a little group, we made ourselves be The Skinny Boys, it was OK to bite back in the days. So we got up there and we sang our song and the song was [singing] “The fat girls are back/And you know they will never be wack/The fat girls are back….”

Aside from Dre and Large Professor, there have not been that many producers who became successful rappers. How good is your new album going to be?
I think Large Professor’s dope. Anything I would say would be too arrogant at this point. But I feel like I really am going to be a very, very big artist. Not just a hip-hop artist or just an underground rapper.

You've been told endlessly to stick to music and leave fashion alone. But you put together the most talked about show at New York Fashion Week with a full, cohesive collection, and today’s sneaker launch was a massive success. Do you think people are still going to try and keep you confined within a single box?
I don’t know. I can’t… I don’t know. People never cease to amaze me.

With all that you’ve unveiled in the last few days, do you think that you’ve torn down the walls that people have built up around you?
I do think that it’s been a strong week. It’s been a strong past three years. From the messaging leading up to it, to that front row, to the presentation, to the price points we want to hit, to the purpose of getting product to the people. And, you know, having a think tank that's equal to what a normal fashion house would have, but for the people.

Right, and with that you’ve been so adamant about raising the general standard in taste and aesthetics across the whole spectrum. With the arrival of “Yeezy Season 1,” how far along are you in this mission?
I think with DONDA and what we’ve been doing, and the way we affect the way people do their artwork or the way Kim’s wardrobe affects the way people approach shopping, it’s been an ongoing thing slowly creeping and slowly creeping. Before, when I drove down the street I would see these brands and think they're really desirable for a girl who would dream of one day walking in that runway show or something like that. And that's a, you know, dated view and degrading to women, in a way.

A more conscious consumer?
Well I don’t want them to have to think of it. We have a think tank, DONDA, and it's an idea group. We’re sitting there and just bouncing ideas with each other. The people who worked on the moon boots, it was a mix between a guy I got from Nike, and the head adidas designer, and a girl I got from Céline, and you could feel that. The girl, she worked on those Doc [Martens] Célines. As a person who's bought a lot of shoes for my wife, if I saw those white Céline boots I would’ve copped those right quick, from Monge Market or whatever. Whoever they were by. Whether they were by Céline or whoever, you know what I’m saying. And now we can bring that to the people.

A lot of people don’t realize or choose to ignore how vast your knowledge of fashion is, and just to kind of showcase the fact, how about I throw out a few labels and you just give me some thoughts off the top of your head?
Okay.

Haider Ackermann.
God.

You love his stuff.
Yes.

How’d you discover him?
Barney’s.

Galliano’s first collection at Margiela.
Passion. Soul. Spirit. Breaking walls. People allowed to create again.

Supreme.
[Pauses] Legendary. Street standard.

Hood By Air.
Shayne is energy.

You excited for his show tomorrow?
Hell yeah!

What was going through your head when you came out and took a bow on Thursday?
I just felt that my life was dependent on the success of this show. I set myself up to win or fail. To win or fail. And people were just waiting. “Is he gonna do it?” It was almost like the Super Bowl of culture in a way. It was like a David Blaine move in some ways. Are the sharks gonna eat me alive? It was, “Will he be eaten by the shark tank, or will he survive? Can he hold his breath for this long?” The three on the back of the Tyvek jacket invites was about the three years that I had been off the runway. And I had to hold my breath for that long.

And now you’ve exhaled and you’re breathing.
Yeah, we got a little bit more air. I mean, how did you feel?

You know, for someone who isn't thinking six months down the road for a magazine issue, fashion shows can begin to feel pretty routine, especially from, like, the third row. But at your show, there was just a palpable energy you rarely feel. It was an event. Of course I went through everything online later, but while there, it was about what you expressed in your intro. You know, “cracking the pavement” and telling kids not to be afraid and just to create, I feel like that’s what this is a platform for, in a way. And you probably opened the floodgates for what's the come from whoever got affected.
For real.

From the unknowns out there.
Yeah. For the unknowns.

But going back to the established dudes, you’re friends with a lot of fashion designers, like Riccardo Tisci, Alexander Wang, Olivier Rousteing... Have they given you any feedback on the collection?
They support me one hundred percent. They sent flowers, emails, and just love. They know I’m in that design office. They know I’m there giving an opinion. They know the concept of celebrity designer is so far out the window. I feel like I’m Eminem, you know? You don’t think "white rapper." You just think Eminem. You don’t think celebrity designer, straight designer, black designer, all these types of things that kind of held me back conceptually in being accepted as a designer. You just think of those words. But when those moon boots come out, you put them on your feet and just swag out and go somewhere with your friends, those words don't matter.


