GQ: I’m going to start recording, cool?
Kanye West: I think words are one of our lowest forms of communication. Music, sound, food, dancing are nonverbal forms of communication. We get so wrapped up into words. We got to make things that are speechless. We have to make things that leave people speechless. We have to make things to the level where no one can say anything.

Before we get to the architecture and homes, I want to understand what you’re up to now in terms of clothing development. What’s the latest?
We’ve been developing new products for two years now. I love having the opportunity to iterate on a piece of apparel. It’s therapeutic and it brings me great joy. There’s times when people used to tell me, “You shouldn’t work on clothes.” And I wouldn’t allow people to tear down my happiness. There’s times where, now that we’re doing couture again,

At Yeezy, you mean?
Yes. At Yeezy. At Kanye West. Whatever you want to call it. At my office. We’re doing couture. And I get to talk about a color palette for one hour. A lot of people would have suggestions: “Go take a jog. Go get some fresh air.” Colors are my fresh air. And every piece that I make, it’s not only something that I would wear, I would never make anything that you wouldn’t catch me in, they’re also art pieces. Everything I’ve ever done has been an art piece, because I’m an artist.

Whether it’s music or…
Any action. Any word. Anything. Even this conversation right now.

Sometimes it seems like you’re never done iterating. How do you know when a project is done? You even kept changing The Life of Pablo after you released it.
Nothing is ever done. That could be the new N.E.R.D. album: Nothing’s Ever Really Done.

How does that apply here in Cody? Because you’re developing these hugely ambitious multiyear projects.
The word ambitious is not allowed to be used around me. Kanye West is nothing if not ambitious. Because ambition, when I hear it, it says that it seems like it’s almost impossible.

As though it has far-fetched tucked into it?
Far-fetched! Yeah, it’s got far-fetched tucked into it. You would be amongst 100 or 200 people on the planet who are like the least racist white person possible. But it’s something about the word ambitious that makes me feel like I’m young Venus Williams doing the TV interview when her dad had to come and defend her. If you say, “Yo, it’s ambitious,” I need Venus and Serena Williams’s dad to run up and say, “How you going to say it’s ambitious? He said he was going to do it!” Have I ever not done anything I said I was going to do? I made it back from addiction, I beat the predictions, brought real to the fictions, that’s off the new album.

Does the fact that nothing is ever really done slow down the momentum of everything you’re creating?
Time and space are man-made constructs. That’s my answer to that question right there. Art never fully explains itself, and art is never fully done. Me being normal, that’s not even a true statement. You know what normal is to me? An act. I can act normal, and that’s me as Clark Kent. But artists are people who have embraced themselves as a superhero.

Sometimes, when I see you refusing to be Clark Kent in certain situations, I’m like, “Please just be Clark Kent for a minute! It will save you so much trouble!”
Yeah, I feel like there’s a job to be unwilling to make compromise. I like when people don’t have to compromise themselves to collaborate. Even as an artist, or as a composer, I compose the strongest talents and push them to be the maximum version of their superhero. People spend one day with me and they’re thinking about their own ideas outside of the box. If people spend years, they should be able to make it to the Super Bowl. To have blind faith is the ultimate confidence. Sometimes it could have felt like it was arrogant. And I think that the arrogance could have come from the fact that I wasn’t working for God, but I was working for my ego, which is like working for the devil.

I feel like this conversation that we’re having, I’m not having to use ego, because everything is defined. We’re on a piece of the 12,000 acres that I own in Wyoming. It’s different than me being inside a photography studio where previous to that there was somebody posing in their underwear, after that there’s somebody showing a backpack. There’s already a comfortability here, and then we’ve known each other for a long time, and then a lot of what sounded crazy or ambitious at a certain point has already been proven.

You seem really focused on architecture right now, developing and building these domes.
When I visited the Tadao Ando Art Island in 2018, there were three James Turrells next to each other and I said, “We need to live in a Turrell.” The funny thing is, the first time I ever talked to Turrell on the phone was the night I ended the Saint Pablo Tour. And the last thing I ever said on that tour was, “The show’s over.” Which felt like my mom talking through me.

How so? Like she was telling you through your own voice to stop?
Yeah, and telling everyone else. Like, “My son is not just here to fill up these sports arenas. My son’s got something else to do.”

And now the ground out here is broken and the next phase has begun.
Yes. The ground between the two lakes is broken. Before, I was working with Axel Vervoordt on revitalizing [the West family home in Hidden Hills] that started as a McMansion and is now an iconic home that informs a lot of other people’s homes, just from my wife’s Instagram Stories. That was a language that Axel guided that would cap, for me, the end of the vicennium. I would just word it like that and let people Google.

I mean, I’m going to have to Google vicennium.
A vicennium is 20 years. So it capped the end of the vicennium. We begged Axel to redo the space. This is before I went to the hospital. I felt like I might go crazy, and we felt like having this wabi-sabi space might help deter that.

When you say “we,” do you mean you and Kim?
No, it was me and longtime collaborator Vanessa Beecroft. Vanessa literally said to Axel, “You must do this to save Kanye’s life.”

No pressure! And he said?
Yes! And now we’re really good friends. We were at James Turrell’s crater on my birthday, June 8, 2019, and Turrell designed an entire home and gave it to me on my birthday.

What did he physically hand to you?
A sketch. Axel was saying that James Turrell’s spaces are too pure for us human beings to live in, and I told Axel, “You’re not going to bully me on my birthday.”

Was being Kanye West a help or a hindrance in establishing a relationship with James Turrell and Axel Vervoordt?
A lot of people are celebrities because they’re vibrating at such a high energy. They’re just stars. I felt that me and James always had that connection. That first time I talked to him, I was literally screaming at the top of my lungs about how important it was for us to work together.

That didn’t send him running the other way?
Well, you know, not everybody’s a pussycat! That would be the Christian way to say it. Some people actually like energy.


I want to understand the timeline of your rebirth as a Christian. Did it evolve out of Sunday Service, and can you tell me the story of the moment where you accepted Jesus?
I surrounded myself with the healing, the highest-level healing possible: singing about Jesus with my friends and family surrounding me [at Sunday Service] every single week. This was a place, contrary to popular belief about Christianity, of no judgment. I feel that the church that most people grew up on as kids had a negative environment. The greatest thing for me, as someone who’s given their life to Christ, is knowing that other people have that as an anchor and a form of healing, because you’re talking to a person that went to the hospital and back. Now you see the measured nature, being able to let the child take the driver’s seat but still be measured.

Do you attribute that to the anchor of faith?
Yes, because when you’re not in service to God, you can end up being in service to everything else. To live inside of sin, it’s going to cost you more than you can pay. You don’t want to continue to sin with no repentance. I understand that people feel that I’ve made some cultural sins. But the only real sins are the sins against God, and you don’t want to continue to sin against God.

Do you conceptualize yourself as having been born again?
I’m definitely born again.

You specifically highlighted that Sunday Service is a place without judgment. But what happens when you take it on tour and you’re headlining Christian festivals,
I feel that we all have sin, and when certain sins are worn more on our sleeves, it’s easier for Christians who are not Christ, but are human beings, to be able to channel judgment at what they see in front of them. The other thing is, if anyone claims to be Christian, they’re accepting accountability to other Christians. But people don’t realize that Christians are loud. That we have a right to righteous anger. That Jesus flipped tables. They think that all of a sudden you believe in Christ, so we’re not even supposed to speak up. And if we speak up, people will say, “Oh, you’re being judgmental.” And it’s like, Oh, now, because I’m Christian, I don’t even have an opinion any more? I’m Christian and I still have an opinion. But my opinion is based on the Word.

Let me phrase the question differently: The Kanye West that I have known over the years hates institutions and hates systems of control and will do anything to break out from being controlled. I’m wondering if that Ye will persist as you encounter more churches and religious institutions, which I, at least, conceptualize as systems of control.
You know, I see opportunity for creativity inside our faith. But let me, because I know you’re looking for a real answer to How does the guy who made Yeezus, which is a very punk album, make a Jesus Is King?

Well, not how do you make Jesus Is King, but how do you headline a Christian festival or interact with various churches? You having your own personal relationship with Jesus is clean and clear. But what happens when these other organizations come into play that are institutions of control?
I think yes, there are groups, as man does, that take the Word and use it to control other people. But as you said, I’m expressing my personal relationship with Christ. When I was not owning up to the maximum of who I could be as a dad and the maximum of who I could be as a husband, that kind of behavior, that kind of mentality, landed me in a place where I needed to be medicated.

So this is an election year, and I’m curious how your faith plays into your thoughts on politics. To go back to when you put on the MAGA hat, how do you see that moment from where we are now, sitting on this plane, in January of 2020?
Both my parents were freedom fighters, and they used to drink from fountains they were told they couldn’t drink from, and they used to sit in restaurants where they were told they couldn’t eat from. They didn’t fight for me to be told by white people which white person I can vote on. [laughs]

What do you make of how that moment reverberated? Did it have the effect that you intended?
I didn’t intend for anything except to speak my mind and express how I felt. I have no intention other than to be free, and I don’t intend to be free, I just simply am.

What is the responsibility of celebrities who are able to move culture? There is this idea that you have to be accountable to people other than just yourself.
Yeah, usually you’re accountable to people that are in control of your check. And you’re accountable for whatever they deem you to be the face of, for the people that they are controlling through you. So that’s what celebrity in America truly means. Celebrities are scared! Celebrities don’t have the real voice. But I don’t want to diss the organization of celebrities. I don’t want to be sending shots at celebrities, because I am one. I know a lot of celebrities.

I don’t think that was a shot at people who are celebrities. I think that was an analysis of the way the system works.
What do you want me to say? This is America. One in three African Americans are enslaved, and we go more crazy if, you know, someone scores a touchdown. Modern-day mass incarceration is right in front of us, and if I even use the word slavery, I’m treated like I’m a white person talking about slavery. I remember when I became a billionaire I was told not to say out loud that I was a billionaire. What?

How did that go?
What? What is the point of being a billionaire if you can’t even say it out loud? We’re not completely free yet.

The one thing that seemed at odds with,
Oh, I got one for you.

Yeah?
“George Bush doesn’t care about black people” is a victim statement. This white person didn’t do something for us. That is stemmed in victim mentality. Every day I have to look in the mirror like I’m Robert De Niro and tell myself, “You are not a slave.” As outspoken as I am, and the position that I am in, I need to tell myself.

A lot of the reaction to you wearing the hat was “How could the guy who gave us the gift of ‘George Bush doesn’t care about black people’ now do this?”
Black people are controlled by emotions through the media. The media puts musicians, artists, celebrities, actors in a position to be the face of the race, that really don’t have any power and really are just working for white people. When it’s said like that, it’s kind of obvious, right? We emotionally connect to someone of our color on TV and feel that this person is speaking for us. So let me say this: I am the founder of a $4 billion organization, one of the most Google-searched brands on the planet, and I will not be told who I’m gonna vote on because of my color.

Now, if that speaks to you, cool. But I’m speaking for myself.

What was at odds to me about you wearing the hat is that “Make America Great Again” is about looking back. Whereas, to me, you are a perpetual forward thinker.
I buy real estate. It’s better now than when Obama was in office. They don’t teach you in school about buying property. They teach you how to become somebody’s property.

For the election ahead, do you plan to speak more about it, or are your interests elsewhere?
No, I’m definitely voting this time. And we know who I’m voting on. And I’m not going to be told by the people around me and the people that have their agenda that my career is going to be over. Because guess what: I’m still here! Jesus Is King was No. 1! I was told my career would end if I wasn’t with her. What kind of campaign is that, anyway? That’s like if Obama’s campaign was “I’m with black.” What’s the point of being a celebrity if you can’t have an opinion? Everybody make their own opinion! You know?

But there is an expectation that when you have a voice as powerful as yours, you can’t just express yourself for yourself. You have to think of other people.
Well, it’s good that we found out about all of those awards shows that partially led me to alcoholism. Whistle been blown, you know? Imagine My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy and Watch the Throne [being eligible] the same year and neither of them being nominated for Album of the Year. Imagine doing The Life of Pablo and driving down the road and never hearing none of those songs on the radio and your wife and your daughter are in the car.

Well, especially when it comes to Dark Fantasy, the record has been corrected. It’s one of the most lauded albums ever. Nobody remembers whether you did or did not win a Grammy.
But when Rolling Stones sic wrote it, they said you’ve probably already forgot about Jesus Is King. Meanwhile, “Selah” is my daughter’s favorite song. So Chicago ain’t forgot about it, Rolling Stones. This is the only album that has this level of production that can be played throughout the house like music was when we grew up. Yeah, we had spirituals about Christ that kept us alive on the slave fields. Then we got opportunity to make money by making R&B, rock ’n’ roll, which removed the name Jesus from the songs. It made it about falling in and out of love. Then the next frontier was to really make the song about how I’m going to kill somebody. Or how I’m going to be with somebody else’s wife. I almost fell into that trap.

So in a way, the sound of the music you’re making has evolved and modernized, but you’re putting the content back to where it began in American music: back into the church, back into faith.
Yeah, the church, where it’s spiritual.

Let’s talk about the music you’re making.
I was thinking of not rapping again, because I rapped for the devil so long that I didn’t even know how to rap for God. Then one of my pastors told me, “My son just said that he would want a rap album about Jesus from Kanye West.” He didn’t say, “Kanye West, you should do this,” or “you need to do this.” He just told me something that a child said. And that one thing made the difference.

One day I was in my office working on the couture collection, and there was some Grey Goose in the fridge and I was just going to get a daytime drink, and I looked and thought, “Devil, you’re not going to beat me today.” That one statement is like a tattoo. I haven’t had a drink since I realized I needed to take it day by day, but I never owned up, or was even told, “Hey, you’re a functioning alcoholic.” People have called me a crazy person, people have called me everything, but not a functioning alcoholic. And I would be drinking orange juice and Grey Goose in the morning.

There was never a public perception of you as an alcoholic. Of course everybody knows the Hennessy-on-the-red-carpet moment, but there wasn’t a perception of “Kanye West has a drinking problem.”
Right? I really grabbed the drink to be able to even go to the awards show due to the information that everyone knows now. To say, “Okay, I can handle this.”

To be Clark Kent.
Yeah.

At the ranch today, we talked a lot about clothing you’re developing. Is Yeezy coming back in a big way? And is it in tandem with the development of the domes and everything happening at the ranch?
Yes. It’s in tandem. My vision, well, I prefer not to say the whole vision. It’d be like if I told you all the lyrics verbatim from the new album. I want people to come and visit Willy Wonka’s factory when it’s ready.

But Yeezy fashion apparel hasn’t gone away?
We’re there every day. Like Willy Wonka.

What about the new Yeezy basketball sneaker? What was the inspiration behind it?
I’m not going to give the exact codes of how we got there. I got kids! There’s pain that comes with those codes. And there’s more innovation to push and to drive.

Okay here’s another one: Can Nike retro the original Air Yeezy 1 and Air Yeezy 2 sneakers? And if they made a move toward rereleasing them, what would you do?
Man, I’m with everything.

What do you mean? You could be okay with that?
Man, anything that the kids want and the people want. People should be able to have what they want.

I’ve also noticed that you have studio setups in pretty much all of your workspaces. With everything you’re doing, when do you decide it’s time to record?
I just rap into my iPhone. Best microphone on the planet. Thirty, forty percent of The College Dropout was recorded on a [Roland] VS-1680. Twenty percent of Jesus Is King was recorded on an iPhone.

Your actual vocals on the album are just voice memos?
Yes. I first started doing that on Yeezus. Like Closed on Sunday, you’re my Chick-fil-A, that part is off the phone.

We talked about how Jesus Is King went to No. 1, but in my opinion people’s ears are still catching up to what you’re doing. Since Yeezus, I feel like you’ve been making music according to a different value system than the one that people are using to judge it.
What value system do people judge music by?

It has to do with their own expectations and the way a song by Kanye West is supposed to work for them.
I mean, “Follow God” was No. 1 [on both the Christian and gospel charts] out the gate and stayed there, and what’s the format on that?

So you’re saying the audience gets it and you’re not focused on the criticisms?
Nah. I’m just focusing on myself. [laughs] You know, music to drive by. Music for me. I actually think Sunday Service is like the Wu-Tang Clan of choirs.

Why?
Because when you first heard Wu-Tang, it sounded completely different. It sounded more aggressive. It even sounded, I think artists are so concerned with perfectionism. All these people say Dark Fantasy was this album that was so good, and then people didn’t like 808s, they didn’t like Yeezus. Dark Fantasy, I just made it to that level because people were saying my career was going to be over. I always felt like “Power” was my weakest first single that I ever had, because I felt like it was bowing to the expectations.

How so?
Just like, “Here’s the ultimate Kanye West song!” Versus “Love Lockdown”? “Can’t Tell Me Nothing”? “Diamonds”? “Follow God”? I always do the songs that people never heard before. But you had actually heard “Power” before. You heard “Crack Music.” You heard “Amazing.” You heard that song before! It’s just a mix of things. But when I showed you a photo of the anorak that we’re developing today, it’s like, Oh, okay,

“This is the start of a whole new conversation.”
Yeah. The anorak feels different. The Yeezy Slide feels different. The Foam Runner, you hadn’t seen that shoe before, either. And I like how all of these things now start to be spoken about as art pieces. A song, a Foam Runner, an interview.

How are you feeling after your fashion show last night? Afterward, everyone was talking about North’s performance. Or about the coronavirus.
I’m just proud of my daughter. It felt, one conversation is about the end of the world. The next conversation is about the beginning. Really, that’s how it is out here! Two days ago, I sat there in the atelier [in Calabasas] as we all talked about the virus, and just thought: If we were to not be here anymore, all I can think is, What a wonderful life it is. You think about those movies where the world is ending and I just simply thank God for life. Thank God for all these experiences.

In Cody we talked a lot about getting out of cities. Into nature. A sustainable environment. Surrounded by family. You said to me, “How far are we from Paris Fashion Week right now?” Now that we’re here in Paris, and fear of the coronavirus is spreading, it makes even more sense, you would certainly be sealed off from the virus if you were living in a sustainable dome in Cody.
Perhaps.

So why come back to the center of the cultural vortex, to Paris?
Well, it’s interesting to see Michèle Lamy and Rick Owens be present. Like, Rick Owens, existing with us. I’m 42 years old. When Rick started doing the spaces and the furniture, he was probably my age. It’s a few people, the space program wasn’t made by itself. It moves me to be able to see Rick Owens in a setting of the past, which is our now. It makes me think: Life is a song that’s already been written, that takes your entire life to hear.

I believe that.
Something I’ve really been on in the past few weeks is the way we use memories to express ourselves. We’re taught that the color white is white when we’re super young. So now if I point at this tablecloth and say “white,” you agree with me. You’re agreeing with something that we both have been programmed to understand in the past so we can communicate in the future.

How does that inform how you create? Are you looking to break some of the programmed ideas that we are all supposed to agree upon?
The greatest freedom is to challenge the vernacular. Or add something to the vernacular. I saw [Alyx designer and former DONDA member] Matt Williams in the hotel lobby at the Mercer a couple weeks ago. Right when I saw him, I started communicating in, like, beep sounds.

Can you give me an example?
You know the beginning of the Bobby Digital song? Like that.

Did he beep back?
Good question. [laughs] We hugged and started using memories to attempt to communicate the future.

Matt posted a photo of the two of you with Virgil [Abloh] in New York. What did y’all talk about?
I don’t remember barely any of what we were talking about. But I remember the way it felt.

For most fashion brands, the goal is to show a new fashion collection, then produce it and sell it. To make revenue and grow a business. But last night, when talking to the press, you said showing the clothes, producing the clothes, it’s all just a creative exercise for you.
Yeah, because who programs us to have certain goals? I like to wake up and exist in a place of ideation every morning. But the way our human nature works, we can increase our productivity when there are checkpoints. I love the video game OutRun 2. Arcade version. I love hitting all the curves and getting all the straightaways. But I also love hitting the goals. Having a fashion show is a step into the goal of the inevitable, which is Armani meets Aman: food, clothing, shelter, space. Showing at an Oscar Niemeyer building gives the apparel some context. But I don’t exist in context. I exist in KAN-text. [laughs] The thing about the spaces that you’ve seen, once those are in place, certain ideas will feel more appropriate as it all joins together.

Do you think that one of the things you do is make really far-out ideas accessible?
I get to exist inside of my own mind and then have these moments where I can pull a piece of what’s in my mind out: Here’s an image from the living spaces we’re doing. Here’s a shot of what me and Axel did with the home over the past five years. Last night was like, This is what the housekeeper looks like in Kanye West’s mind.

Isn’t this what people have always come to you for, these little downloads that suggest where we’re headed?
Yes. Today everyone that’s looking has to sit through the questions that it presents: What just happened? Why did I just look at that? We know from the past ten years that, you know, when I wore the Pastelle jacket at the “Heartless” performance at the AMAs, it was awesome. But neither me nor anyone else around thought it was better than or even equal to what Hedi [Slimane] was doing at Dior. Or to what Nigo was doing then. But now that jacket would definitely be equal or better.

Because the context has shifted?
You know what it is? Farming. Farming ideas. Planting seeds. Fashion Week and the internet is the soil. This is the seed. If I don’t show, then I never plant the seed. But the thing is, people say, “This is Kanye West, and we love the huge trees that you have given us. We want to come to your garden to see your trees.” And when they come, they just see dirt.

You’re like, “Trust me, there’s seeds in there.”
I get so excited about the dirt.



